This sub-topic focuses on colours. Colours are one of the first vocabulary sets learners learn. They are
easy to visualize and use in everyday life, making them a great starting point for language learning.
Knowing colours helps learners to describe objects, clothes, food and the world around them. This
enhances the ability to speak and understand French in real life situations. Learning about colours will
also enable learners to understand the agreement in gender and number, an essential part of French
grammar.
Specific Competence 1.6.1.1: Express preferences for colours in French.
Key Terms /Words/Vocabulary
Le vocabulaire
Les couleurs - vert/verte, rouge, orange, noir/noire blanc, blanche (masculin/féminin) jaune,
bleu/bleue, brun/brune, marron, rose...
Les expressions
Décrire la couleur - Il/elle est + nom de couleur...
(Il est noir, le chien) , C'est + nom de couleur...
La grammaire
Les verbes - aimer, préférer, colorer, décolorer, peindre, être, avoir...
French Teaching Module: Form 1 - Term 2

2
Learning Activities
Activity 1: Identifying colours of objects (rouge, jaune, verte)
• Provide a dialogue on colours. E.g.
Monique: Quelle est ta couleur préférée?
Jacques: Ma couleur préférée est le bleu, et toi?
Monique : Moi, j'aime le blanc.
Jacques:Tu aimes le rouge aussi?
Monique: No. Je n'aime pas le rouge.
• Learners listen to a dialogue/conversation on colours and identify the names of
colours in French.
• Provide different objects with colours mentioned in the dialogue for learners to see.
• Introduce other colours to the learners (vert/e, gris, jaune, orange etc).
Activity 2: Discussing one's preferences for colours (j'aime/ je n'aime pas la couleur verte)
Content Tips
¸Colours that end with '-e' do not change form according to gender e.g le pantalon
rouge, la robe rouge.
¸Some colours agree in gender and number with the noun e.g
Un sac bleu - des sacs bleus
Une robe verte - des robes vertes
¸If a noun is feminine, many colour adjectives take an '-e' at the end e.g une robe bleue, une
pomme verte
¸Some colours change form to agree with the noun's gender and number e.g blanc(m)/
blanche(f) e.g un mur blanc, une robe blanche
¸Conjugate le verbe 'aimer' and préférer.
¸Explain la négation 'ne…. pas' structure.
• In groups, learners talk about colour preferences using the verbs 'aimer' and 'préférer
(positive and negative form).
• Learners construct sentences using 'ne … pas' for their colour preferences.
Activity 3: Drawing and coloring the Flag of Zambia.
• Learners mention colours of the Flag of Zambia in French.
• Learners draw the Flag of Zambia and label the colours in French.
Expected Standard: Preferences for colours expressed in French correctly.
Key Points/Recap
i. Colours in French.
ii. Gender and number for colours.
French Teaching Module: Form 1 - Term 2

3
Specific Competence 1.6.1.2: Distiguish gender in colours.
Learning Activities
Activity 1: Describing the colour of an object or thing (vert/e, blanc /he).
Content Tips
¸Some colours change form to agree with the noun's gender and number e.g blanc(m)/
blanche(f) e.g un mur blanc, une robe blanche.
• Provide objects or items of different colours.
• Learners describe the colours of objects or items in French.
Activity 2: Writing dictated words on colours (masculine/feminine).
• Learners write dictated words on colours.
Expected Standard: Preferences for colours expressed in French correctly.
Key Points / Recap
i. Gender of colours.
Sub-Topic 1.6.2 Physical Characteristics and Personality
Introduction
This sub-topic will enhance learners' communication skills, understanding of cultural contexts and
will enable them express themselves with confidence as they describe characteristics of a person
and objects by using adjectives related to traits in French.
Specific Competence 1.6.2.1: Describe someone's physical characteristics and personality in
French.
Key Terms /Words/Vocabulary
Le vocabulaire
la tête, les cheveux, les yeux, le nez, les oreilles, la bouche...
Les expressions
Décrire quelqu'un : Il/Elle est comment ?/ Comment est-il /elle?
Il /elle est … (petit/petite,/grand/grande/, gros/ grosse, mince / Il(elle) est très … beau/belle, etc. il
/elle est un peu, assez …. Il/elle a les cheveux longs et noirs...
La rammaire
Le comparatif - Il/Elle est plus +(adjectif) que, Il/Elle est moins+(adjectif) que …
Les verbes - être, avoir...
French Teaching Module: Form 1 - Term 2

4
Learning Activities
Activity 1: Identifying physical characteristics and personality(cheveux longs, les yeux bruns).
• Draw 'le corps humain' and label the external parts in French (la tête, les cheveux, les
yeux, le nez, les oreilles, la bouche etc).
• Learners read and pronounce the body parts in French correctly.
• In groups, learners identify the physical characteristics of people from the images or
pictures displayed. E.g Il est petit/elle est petite, Il est grand/elle est grande.
Activity 2: Discussing adjectives in French.
Content Tips
¸Add an 'e' to the describing word if the word being described is feminine e.g la grande fille, le
grand garçon,/ add 's' to the describing word if the word being described is plural e.g les
grands garçons, les grandes filles
¸In English, you can use the same describing word (adjective) for whatever you like to
describe but in French the describing word has to change to match whether what it is
describing is masculine/feminine/singular/plural (adjectives must agree with the thing they
are describing)
• Provide sentences in French in which adjectives describing physical characteristics of a
person or thing have been used.
E.g. C'est une petite maison. Il est un beau garçon.
• Learners identify adjectives used in the given sentences.
Activity 3: Describing a person or an object using information provided (cheveux longs, les yeux bruns,
petit(e), grand(e)).
• In pairs, learners describe a friend or family members using the vocabulary learned.
• Write a guided composition on describing a person using a picture.
Content Tips
¸Adjectives ending in 'e' don't need to add an extra 'e' when dealing with gender e.g
jeune/jeune, mince /mince.
¸Discuss irregular adjectives (adjectives ending in - x,-f, -er, -on, -en, -el, and il
Group of
words
ending
Example Mas.singl Fem.
singl
Mas. pl Fem. pl
- x Heureux (happy) heureux heureuse heureux heureuses
- f Neuf (new) neuf neuve neufs neuves
- er Premier (first) premier première premiers premières
- on,- en,
-el - il
Bon (good) bon bonne bons bonnes
- c Blanc (white) blanc blanche blancs blanches
-au/el Beau(handsome)Belle(beautiful) beau belle beaux belles
French Teaching Module: Form 1 - Term 2

5
Activity 4: Discussing the expressions used to describe ones personality.
• Introduce adjectives used to describe ones personality (heureux, intelligent, content/e,
paresseux).
• Learners role-play describing someone's personality e.g. Mon frère est calme, Ma mère est
timide.
Activity 5: Formulating adverbs from adjectives (timide…timidement, gentil…gentiment,prudent…
prudemment
Content Tips
¸Adverbs can be divided in four groups that describe :how something happens (les adverbes
de manière), where it happens (les adverbes de lieu), when it happens (les adverbes de
temps) and to what extent (les adverbes d'intensité).
¸In French most adverbs of manner are formed by adding - ment to the feminine form of
adjective e.g douce - doucement.
¸If an adjective ends in a vowel add - ment to the masculine form e.g joli - joliment
¸Adjectives ending in - ent or ant change to emment and amment( both pronounced amant)
e.g prudent - prudemment/ brillant - brillamment. Exceptions: lent - lentement
• Learners formulate adverbs from given adjectives.
Activity 6: Completing sentences with correct adjectives and adverbs.
• Learners complete the given passage with the correct adjectives and adverbs.
Expected Standard: Physical characteristics and personalities described correctly .
•
•
•
•
Key Points /Recap
i. Adjectives: l' accord mas./fem.(m/f agreement), l' accord singl/pl (sing./pl agreement).
ii. Adverbs: la formation (forming adverbs).
Teaching and Learning materials: Tempo 1/Alter ego
Assessment
Note that assessment will be done during and after each learning activity.
Provide assessment for each learning activity which is meant to achieve the specific
competence.
The expected standard will be judged by the formative assessment for the learning
activities from all the sub-topics taught and the summative assessment given at the end of
the each topic.
The assessment activities shall include project based tasks, practical demonstration,
written assessment (quizzes, open ended and closed questions…).
French Teaching Module: Form 1 - Term 2

6
UNIT 7
TOPIC 1.7.0 NUMERACY
Overview
Numeracy refers to the ability to understand, interpret and work with numbers and mathematical
concepts. Numbers are a basic and essential part of any language. They appear in everyday
conversation, from telling time and dates to handling money, giving phone numbers or counting
items. Understanding numbers in French helps learners to engage in practical communication
through practical usage of numbers in real life situations. Learning numbers in French also enables
learners to know how French speakers structure numbers in a unique way. This topic has three sub-
topics namely, Cardinal Numbers, Ordinal Numbers and Counting Money.
General Competences
Communication
Learners will:
i. Use numbers during their everyday conversation in different situations.
Critical Thinking
Learners will:
i. Explore how French speakers structure numbers in a unique way there by recognizing
numbers and their pattern relationships.
Problem Solving
Learners will:
i. Develop skills that help them budget, save and make smart financial decisions.
Hook
Imagine you are in Paris, standing in a bakery and want to buy two croissants. The baker asks,
'combien en voulez - vous?' you know what you want, but how do you say the number in French?
Without your numbers in French, you might end up with twelve instead of two.
Sub - Topic 1.7.1 Cardinal Numbers 1-1000 in French
Introduction
Cardinal numbers are used constantly in everyday life when expressing age, quantity, prices, time
and dates. They are building blocks for learning ordinal numbers as they are a foundation for other
number types and mathematical operations.
Specific Competence 1.7.1.1: Count from 0 - 1000 in French.
Key Terms /Words/Vocabulary
Le vocabulaire
Chiffre, zéro, un, deux, cent, trois cent, mille, deux mille, numéro, combien, c'est…
La grammaire
Les verbes - compter, demander...
Learning Activities
Activity 1: Listening to numbers in French.
• Teacher counts objects or items in French. E.g. un, deux, trois, quatre, cinq …
French Teaching Module: Form 1 - Term 2

7
•
• Display a chart with objects and their numbers in French. E.g. one pen: Un stylo, ten
oranges: Dix oranges…
• In groups, learners count different items in French.
Activity 2: Identifying numbers from 0 to 1000 in French.
Content Tips
¸Numbers from 11 (onze) to 16 (seize) end with 'ze'.
¸Numbers from 17 to 19 are ten - seven (dix-sept), ten-eight (dix-huit) and ten-nine (dixneuf).
¸30, 40, 50 and 60 in french end with 'nte' (trente, quarante, cinquante, soixante).
¸70 is sixty-ten (soixante-dix).
¸80 is four 20s (quatre-vingts) .
¸90 is four 20s-ten (quatre-vingts-dix).
¸In between numbers are like in English e.g. vingt-deux, vingt-trois. Except for (21: vingt et un,
31: trente et un, 41: quarante et un…).
• Display a chart with numbers in French (zéro to cent).
• Learners identify the numbers ending with -ze-, -nte-… and group them accordingly.
Activity 3: Counting cardinal numbers from 0 to 1000.
• Learners count from 0 to 100.
• In groups, learners use flashcards to compete in identifying numbers in French.
• In pairs, learners ask each other's phone number in French.
Pierre : Bonjour.
Irène : Bonjour. Quel est ton numéro de téléphone.
Pierre : C' est 0974 60-82-89; et toi?
Irène : Moi, c'est 0974 15-84-21.
Activity 4: Write numbers in French from 0 – 1000.
• Learners write numbers in French from 0 - 100.
• Learners match the numbers in figures to numbers in French.
Expected Standard: Cardinal numbers counted correctly.
Key Points / Recap
i. Counting cardinal numbers in French.
ii. Writing numbers in French.
Sub-Topic 1. 7. 2 Ordinal Numbers
Introduction
In French, ordinal numbers are very important as they help learners to know the position, ranking and
order. Ordinal numbers help learners form more natural sentences and improve their ability to
understand instructions, sequence and narratives.
Learners listen and count after the teacher with correct pronunciation.
French Teaching Module: Form 1 - Term 2

8
Specific Competence 1.7.2.1: Demonstrate knowledge of ordinal numbers from 1 to 20 in
French.
Key Terms /Words/ Vocabulary
Le vocabulaire
Les nombres ordinaux: premier/première, deuxième …
Learning Activities
Activity 1: Listening to a passage on ordinal numbers and identify them. E.g. (premier,
deuxième etc…).
• Provide a passage or dialogue which contains ordinal numbers. E.g. premier,
deuxième, …
• Learners identify ordinal numbers from the passage or dialogue.
• Explain the meaning of ordinal numbers used in the passage or dialogue.
Activity 2: Discussing Ordinal numbers and their endings- (ième).
Content Tips
¸Explain the formation of Ordinal numbers.
¸Add -ième to the cardinal number to get deuxième (second), troisième (third), etc.
¸Explain the complete change for un/ une into masculin : premier/feminin : première
(first) and spelling adjustment for cinq - cinquième (fith), neuf - neuvième (ninth).
Words ending in 'e'such as quatre, sieze, treize... drop the 'e'to become quatrième,
seizième, and treizième respectively.
• Learners read and pronounce the Ordinal numbers.
Activity 3: Reading the passage on ordinal numbers and answer the questions.
• Provide passage /dialogue for learners to read and pronounce the ordinal numbers.
• In groups, learners write ordinal numbers from different passages /dialogues
provided.
• Groups present their findings.
Activity 4: Writing ordinal numbers from 1 to 20.
• Learners write ordinal numbers from 1 to 20.
Expected Standard: Knowledge of ordinal numbers 1 to 20 demonstrated correctly.
Key Points / Recap
i. Formation of ordinal numbers.
ii. Reading and pronouncing ordinal numbers.
iii. Writing ordinal numbers in French.
French Teaching Module: Form 1 - Term 2

9
Sub-Topic 1. 7. 3 Counting Money
Introduction
Money management is an important life skill. By learning about counting money, learners will
develop skills that help them budget, save and make smart financial decisions. This sub-topic will also
help learners explore mathematical operations and develop skills to manage everyday transactions
with confidence.
Specific Competence 1.7.3.1: Apply the four mathematical operations on numbers below 100 in
French.
Key Terms /Words/Vocabulary
Le vocabulaire
Combien coûte, l'argent, le prix, la monnaie, égale...
La grammaire
Les verbes - compter, demander, acheter, diviser (divisé), multiplier (fois), ajouter (plus), soustraire
(moins)...
Learning Activities
Activity 1: Adding, Subtracting, Dividing and Multiplying small numbers.
Content Tips
?Explain the four mathematical operations - divisé, fois, plus, moins.
a) Adding small numbers and amounts
e.g 2 + 3= 5 (Deux plus trois égale cinq).
K10 + K5 = K15 (Dix Kwacha plus Cinq Kwacha égale Quinze Kwacha).
?Provide a scenario on addition
e.g. J' achête un livre à K20 et deux stylos à K15. Le transport est K 5. Combien
est le total?
b) Subtracting small numbers and amounts
e.g. 7 - 2 = 5 (sept moins deux égale cinq).
K34 - K11 = K23 (Trente quatre kwacha moins onze kwacha égale vingt trois kwacha).
?Provide a scenario on substraction.
e.g. J'ai K50. j' achête un crayon à K5, deux stylos à K10 et trois livres à K30. Je reste
avec combien d' argent.
c) Multiplying small numbers and amounts
e.g. 8 x 3 = 24 (huit fois trois égale vingt-quatre) K6 x
5 = K30 (six kwacha fois cinq égale trente kwacha)
?Provide a scenario on multiplication
e.g. Je veux acheter huit oranges. Une orange coûte K5. Combien coûtent huit
oranges?
French Teaching Module: Form 1 - Term 2

10
d) Dividing small numbers and amounts.
e.g 12 ÷ 4 = 3 (Douze divisé par quatre égale trois).
K 32 ÷ 16 = K2 (Trente deux kwacha divisé par seize égale deux Kwacha).
?Provide a scenario on division.
e.g. J'ai K 27. Un bonbon coûte K3. Combien de bombons je vais acheter dans K27?
Activity 2: Writing a small budget in French.
• Provide a sample of a written budget.
e.g. Fait un budget mensuel.
Catégorie Dépense
Nourriture K 100
Transports K 40
Vêtements K 50
Téléphone /
internet
K 20
Lotion K 15
Total K 225
• Learners write a small budget in French. e.g. Quotidien ou mensuel.
Expected Standard: The four mathematical operations applied correctly.
Assessment
•
•
•
•
Key Points/ Recap
i. Use of Addition ,Subtraction, Division and Multiplication in French
ii. Writing a simple budget in French.
Teaching and Learning Materials: Tempo 1,GSCE French, Luangwa 2
Note that assessment will be done during and after each learning activity.
Provide assessment for each learning activity which is meant to achieve the specific
competence.
The expected standard will be judged by the formative assessment for the learning
activities from all the sub-topics taught and the summative assessment given at the end of
the each topic.
The assessment activities shall include project based tasks, practical written (quizzes,
open ended and closed questions…).
French Teaching Module: Form 1 - Term 2

11
UNIT 8
TOPIC 1.8.0 PREFERENCES
Overview
Expressing one's preferences is essential for effective daily communication. This skill enables learners
to share their interests and engage with others, which is crucial for building relationships. This topic
will cover essential vocabulary, key phrases, and sentence structures necessary for discussing
preferences. Additionally, it will introduce cultural aspects of preferences in the French-speaking
world, such as common food, leisure activities, and social norms surrounding likes and dislikes.
Learners will be able to articulate their likes and dislikes in various contexts, thereby increasing their
confidence in speaking French. This topic has one sub-topic.
General Competences
Communication
Learners will:
i. Develop basic conversational skills to express likes, dislikes, and preferences clearly and in
French.
Emotional Intelligence
Learners will:
i Demonstrate preferences reflect personality and emotions.
Show empathy towards others when discussing likes and dislikes.
Critical Thinking
Learners will:
i. Analyse the reasons behind personal preferences and formulate responses that
express these reasons in French, e.g., "Je préfère les films comiques parce qu'ils me font
rire".
ii. Recognize the role of language in shaping and conveying personal preferences, and how
these may vary across cultures.
iii. Compare and contrast preferences with classmates in order to foster a deeper
understanding and appreciation of cultural diversity within French-speaking communities.
Hook
Ask learners things they like or dislike. (e.g Qui préfère le chocolat/les bonbons?
Sub-Topic 1.8.1 Likes and Dislikes
Introduction
The sub-topic focuses on how to express likes and dislikes in French. Being able to clearly
communicate what you like or dislike is essential for both social interactions and personal
conversations. By learning these expressions, learners will be able to express their opinions and
preferences with confidence.
Specific Competence 1.8.1.1: Express likes and dislikes in French.
Key Terms/Words/Vocabulary
Le vocabulaire
Corruption, mauvais comportement, fromage, glace, campagne, chocolat...
Les expressions
Qu'est-ce que tu aimes ? Quel est ton plat préféré ? Mon passe-temps préféré est…faire de la
randonnée, faire du vélo, jouer au foot, faire un pique – nique, faire de la photographie…
French Teaching Module: Form 1 - Term 2

12
La grammaire
La négation; ne ....pas (ex...: je n'aime pas) /oui/ non/Si/ On = nous/ Je n' aime pas beaucoup... /Je
n’aime pas du tout /Je déteste... les pronoms démonstratifs; celui-ci/celui-là /celle-ci/celle-là / ceux-
ci/ceux-là...
Les verbes - aimer, admirer, détester, déplaire, dégoûter, rejeter, préférer, adorer...
Les adverbes: beaucoup, un peu...
Learning Activities
Activity 1: Responding to oral questions on likes and dislikes in French (Qu'est ce que tu aimes? J'aime/
je n'aime pas le chocolat...).
• Provide verbs and phrases used to express likes and dislikes (e.g., J'aime, Je déteste, Je préfère,
Je n'aime pas…).
• Conjugate the verbs : Aimer, détester, adorer… au temps présent.
• Introduce question words: Qu'est – ce que, quel/quelle est/qui... ?
• In pairs, learners practice asking and answering simple questions about their preferences using
the verbs and phrases provided.
a) Likes
e.g. Henri: Qu'est-ce que tu aimes?
Marie: J'aime le chocolat.
Henri: Quel est ton plat préféré ?
Marie: Je préfère Nsima au poulet/… Henri: Qui aime
les bonbons ?
Henri: Moi.
b) Dislikes
e.g. Susanne: Qu'est ce que tu détestes ?
André: Je déteste les bananes.
Content Tips
?Explain the negative expression: 'ne … pas' can also be used to express dislikes (subject + ne
+ verbe + pas).
e.g. Michel: Tu aimes les carottes ? Pauline: Non, je n'aime pas les carottes.
Activity 2: Expressing likes and dislikes for taste, colour, hobbies, places, buildings, scenery, people.
• Provide a passage/ dialogue on likes and dislikes about different things and objects
e.g. colours, hobbies, places, food …
• Learners read and identify different preference expressions/ phrases.
• Provide more examples to help learners express likes and dislikes for each
category listed. e.g.
i. Taste: j'adore la glace, je déteste le fromage...
ii. Colour: j'aime le bleu, je n'aime pas le rouge...
French Teaching Module: Form 1 - Term 2

13
iii. Hobbies: j'aime lire, je n'aime pas danser, j'adore jouer au foot...
iv. Places: j'aime la plage, j'adore les montagnes, je déteste les grandes
villes...
v. Buildings: j'aime les musées, je n'aime pas les hôtels...
vi. Scenery: j'aime la mer, je déteste les déserts, j'adore la campagne...
vii. People: j'adore ma famille, je déteste les personnes impolies...
• In pairs, learners practice expressions used to ask about likes and dislikes.
e.g. Quel est ton plat préféré? / Qu'est-ce que tu aimes manger ?
Quelle est ta couleur préférée ?
Quelle est ton passe-temps préféré/ favori ?
Est-ce que tu aimes les musées/la campagne/ le cinéma ?
Qu'est-ce que tu aimes dans la vie ?
Quel sport tu préfères/ quel sport préfères- tu?
• In small groups, learners discuss likes and dislikes for taste, colour, hobbies, places,
buildings, scenery, people.
Activity 3: Reading a passage on likes and dislikes and answering questions based on the passage.
• Provide learners with a passage on likes and dislikes.
• Learners read the passage and answer questions.
Activity 4: Writing about likes and dislikes in French.
• Learners write a coherent paragraph on their likes and dislikes.
Expected Standard: Likes and dislikes expressed accurately.
Assessment
• Note that assessment will be done during and after each learning activity.
• Provide assessment for each learning activity which is meant to achieve the specific
competence.
• The expected standard will be judged by the formative assessment for the learning activities
from all the sub-topics taught and the summative assessment given at the end of each topic
• The assessment activities shall include project based tasks, practical demonstration, written
assessment (quizzes, open ended and closed questions…)
Key Points Recap
• Key Vocabulary for Likes and Dislikes.
• Negation: Expressing dislikes.
• Sentence Structure: Subject + Verb + Object/Activity/Preference.
Teaching and Learning Materials: Tempo 1/ Latitude 1/Contact 1.
French Teaching Module: Form 1 - Term 2

14
UNIT 9
TOPIC 1.9.0 LOCALISATION AND MOVEMENT
Overview
In French, localisation refers to the concept of 'where' something is, while movement involves the
concept of 'where something is going' or 'how it is moving'. This topic discusses the position of an
object, person, or thing in a sentence. It is a crucial topic for learners because it equips them with the
vocabulary, expressions and grammatical structures needed to describing position, direction and
distance. This topic has three sub-topics namely, Position, Direction and Distance.
General Competences
Communication
Learners will:
i. Apply listening ,speaking ,reading ,and writing skills.
ii. Express oneself (spoken and written) clearly and effectively using prepositions of place.
iii. Express oneself using different media and symbols of something object or person.
Analytical Thinking
Learners will:
i Use appropriate language (Verbal and non – verbal in different situations when giving
directions and locating the position of something.
Emotional Intelligence
Learners will:
ii Use appropriate expressions and show empathy when asking for direction.
Hook
How do you ask for direction and location of a place you have never been?
Sub -Topic 1.9.1 Position
Introduction
Position is defined as the location or placement of an object, person, and point in relation to its
surrounding. It describes where something is situated physically.
Specific Competence 1.9.1.1: Describe the position of an object in French.
Key-Terms/ Words/Vocabulary
Le vocabulaire
Ici, là, devant, entre, sur, sous, dans, derrière, à côté de, au-dessus, en dessous, près, loin, en face
de, à gauche, à droite ,en arrière, en avant, au Nord, Sud, Est, Ouest, à, o, en…
La grammaire
Les verbes - aller, venir, tourner, prendre, faire, revenir…
French Teaching Module: Form 1 - Term 2

15
Learning Activities
Activity 1: Identifying preposition of place from a given passage/ demonstration (sur, dans …).
• Provide a passage with prepositions of place.
• Learners read the passage on prepositions of place (sur, dans, sous …).
• Demonstrate and explain the meaning of each preposition used in the passage by
using objects in class with different prepositions of place. e.g Le stylo est sur la table.
Le sac est sous la chaise.
Les élèves sont en classe.
Le chien est dans la cour.
• Learners identify different positions of objects in a given picture.
Activity 2: Discussing the position of the object in relation to another.
• Introduce other prepositions and explain their meaning to the learners. e.g. derrière,
devant, à côté de … .
• Provide any two objects to be described in relation to each other. Position the two objects.
e.g la chaise /table.
• Ask the position of the chair. (Où est la chaise?) e. g la chaise est à côté de la table.
• Put different objects in different places and ask learners to describe their positions.
Activity 3: Discussing the position of the object in relation to another.
• Identify the two objects to be described in relation to each other.
• Learners name the object e. g le stylo , la table.
• Position the two objects (le stylo est sur la table )
• Ask learners the position of le stylo .( où est le stylo?) e. g le stylo est sur la table.
• Introduce other prepositions of place and explain their meaning to the learners .e.g sous,
devant … .
• Place different objects in different positions in relation to the other by using (devant, a
cote, derriere, au, dessous).
• Learners construct sentences on the position of an object in relation to the other.
Expected Standard: Position of an object described correctly.
Key Points/Recap
i. Prepositions of place.
Specific Competence 1.9.1.2: State the location of a person, place or thing in French.
Learning Activities
Activity 1: Locating a place or person on a given map or drawing (notre école se trouve / est près de la
banque. Ma mère est devant toi…)
• Provide a map or a chart with people, buildings, roads and symbols correctly marked.
French Teaching Module: Form 1 - Term 2

16
• Learners identify landmarks such as hôtel, restaurant, banque, hopital, Rue Cairo… on the
map by naming them.
• Learners identify where a person, place or thing is located on the map in relation buildings,
roads …
e.g. Où est Marie ?
Marie est devant le café.
Où est l'école Milemu?
L'école Milemu est près du restaurant.
• Explain how to use 'se trouver' in a sentence when giving a response.
e.g. Notre école se trouve près de la banque.
• Learners respond to questions on positions of people, places or things using the map and
the vocabulary learned (près, devant derrière, en face de, à côté de…).
Activity 2: Discussing the campus (l'Est, Ouest, Nord, Sud).
• Introduce the four cardinal points of the campus (le Sud, le Nord, l'Est, l'Ouest).
• Learners draw the campus and label the points in French.
Activity 3: Locating the provinces of Zambia and their headquarters (Province du nord-Kasama,
Province du sud-Choma, Province du nord-ouest, Solwezi).
• Learners name the 10 provinces of Zambia and their headquarters in French.
• Learners match provinces to different activities found in each province
e.g province de l'Est - Nc'wala.
Expected Standard: Location of a thing, place, and people stated in French accordingly.
Key Points /Recap
i. Prepositions used to express position.
ii. The campus.
Sub-Topic 1.9.2 Direction
Introduction
Directions are instructions or guidance on how to navigate from one place to another. They help
learners understand where they are, where they need to go, and how to get there. Asking for and
giving directions in French is an essential skill used in everyday conversations. This sub-topic discusses
how to ask, give direction and locate a place through learning the basic phrases and vocabulary used
in the given context.
Specific Competence: 1.9.2.1: Give directions to someone in French.
Key Terms/Words/ Vocabulary
Le vocabulaire
Est, Ouest, Nord, Sud, allez tout droit, tournez à gauche...
French Teaching Module: Form 1 - Term 2

17
La grammaire
Impératif /Vous de politesse, …. L'emploi de :à…, à l'…, à la… au …
Les verbes - aller, tourner, monter, habiter, traverser...
Learning Activities
Activity 1- Listening to a dialogue on giving directions and identifying expressions used
(allez tout droit, tournez à gauche …).
• Provide dialogue/conversation in which two people are asking for and giving directions.
• Learners listen to the conversation or dialogue and identify expressions used when asking and
giving directions e.g. Où se trouve l'hôpital? allez tout droit, tournez à gauche…
• Demonstrate giving directions by using a sketch map with places, roads and symbols (aller
tout droit, tourner à gauche …).
• Learners practice giving direction using specific destinations of their choice.
Activity 2: Reading a simple map and locating a place/ village/town/ any other /features.
• Introduce more expressions used to ask for and give directions in French.
Pour demander la direction:
Où se trouve l'hôpital/ le parc ...?
Où est l'église s'il vous plaît?
Excusez-moi, Je cherche la banque ZANACO.
Je suis perdu(e), c'est où le centre commercial?
Reponse:
Allez tout droit
Continuez tout droit
Tournez à droite (à gauche)
Prenez la première route à droite
Prenez à gauche (à droite)
Traversez la rue (le pont)
Content Tips
?Explain l'emploi de : à…, à l'…, à la… au …
• Provide and display a map showing different places and ask learners to locate the places
mentioned.
• Learners role play asking for and giving directions using the expressions learned.
Activity 3: Directing someone to a given place.
• In pairs, learners ask for and give directions using correct expressions learned.
Activity 4: Giving directions to ones place of choice in written.
• Learners write a guided composition directing someone to their own place of choice.
French Teaching Module: Form 1 - Term 2

18
Expected Standard: Directions given to someone in French precisely.
Key Points /Recap
i. Expressions used to ask for and give directions
ii. L'impératif /Vous de politesse, …. L'emploi de : à…, à l'…, à la… au …
Sub-Topic 1.9.3 Distance
Introduction
Distance is a common topic in everyday conversations. Whether someone is asking how far a location
is or discussing travel plans, knowing how to express distance allows one to engage in these
conversations naturally. This sub-topic will discuss French expressions that are important in describing
locations and directions.
Specific Competence 1.9.3.1: Indicate how far or near a point is from another in French
Key Terms/Words/ Vocabulary
Le vocabulaire
Route, village, ville, direction, coin, cinéma, poste, banque, hôtel, église...petit/petite,
grand/grande… le kilomètre, la distance, la rue, le mètre, la hauteur, le lieu...
Les expressions
La distance - Prés de, loin de, dix kilomètres de … A quelle distance de…se trouve… ?/ C'est à quelle
distance ? A combien de kilomètres de+nom de lieu? … 47 /où?se trouve…? il y a ...kilomètres de
…à…/c'est à... kilomètres de...à… C'est à…km de…
La grammaire
L'emploi de :à…, à l'…, à la… au …
Les verbes - aller, tourner, monter, habiter, traverser...
Learning Activities
Activity 1: Identifying expressions indicating how far or near a point is from another (prés de, loin de,
dix kilometre de …)
• Provide expressions used to talk about distance in French.
Comment demander
À quelle distance de Lusaka se trouve Solwezi ?
C'est à quelle distance ?
À combien de kilomètres de Chinsali?
French Teaching Module: Form 1 - Term 2

19
French Teaching Module: Form 1 - Term 3
Reponse
Il y a 7 kilomètres de Chipata à Katete.
C'est à 20 kilomètres de Choma à Mazabuka.
• Learners identify expressions used to indicate distance between two points from a given
passage (prés de, loin de, dix kilometre de …).
Activity 2: Discussing distance between two points (prés de, loin de, dix kilometre de …)
• Display a plan or map showing distances between two places.
• Learners discuss how far the two places are from each other (prés de, loin de, à dix
kilomètres de …).
• In groups, learners construct sentences using “prés de, loin de, à … kilomètre de…”.
• In pairs, learners role-play using expressions used to indicate distance between two points in
French.
Expected Standard: Distance between two points indicated clearly.
Assessment
• Note that assessment will be done during and after each learning activity.
• Provide assessment for each learning activity which is meant to achieve the specific
competence.
• The expected standard will be judged by the formative assessment for the learning activities
from all the sub-topics taught and the summative assessment given at the end of each topic
• The assessment activities shall include project based tasks, practical demonstration,
written assessment (quizzes, open ended and closed questions…)
Key Points/ Recap
i. Expressions used to indicate distance.
Teaching and Learning Materials: Tempo 1, Equipe 1

UNIT 10
TOPIC 1.10.0: ACCOMMODATION AND HYGIENE
Overview
Accommodation and hygiene are two sides of the same coin that are closely linked to environment
awareness. Hygiene plays a crucial role in ensuring good health, comfort and overall well-being.
Understanding the importance of accommodation and hygiene helps learners to take care of their
surroundings and make informed choices about where they live and how to maintain their
environment. This topic will enrich learners' vocabulary in French that will be used in their day to day
lives. The topic has two sub-topics namely 'Types of homes and Care for the surrounding and
hygiene.
General Competences
Communication
Learners will:
i Acquire necessary vocabulary to engage in environmental discussions
Critical Thinking
Learners will:
i Learners will develop environmental awareness that will enable them to make right
decision on issues to do with their environment
Environmental Sustainability
Learners will:
i Uphold good practices that benefit and sustain their environment
Hook
Show pictures, showing a dirty environment and clean environment. Ask learners to describe a dirty
and clean place in French.
Sub-Topic 1.10.1 Types of Homes
Introduction
A home is a place where a person or family lives. It provides shelter, safety, comfort and a sense of
belonging. A home can be a house, a hut or any space where people feel secure and at ease. It is
more than just a building; it is where people eat, sleep, rest and spend time with loved ones. This sub
topic explores different types of homes notably modern and traditional homes.
Specific Competence 1.10.1.1: Compare modern and traditional houses in French.
Key Terms/ Words/ Vocabulary.
Le vocabulaire
Grande ou petite /à étages /blanche/ verte/ bleue/ jaune/ rouge/ en bois/en brique/en ciment/en
terre battu …
20
French Teaching Module: Form 1 - Term 2

French Teaching Module: Form 1 - Term 2
21
La grammaire
Les verbes - balayer, aérer, dormir, se coucher, s'asseoir, nettoyer, prendre une douche, se baigner,
laver, se laver, prévenir, jeter, boire, manger …
Learning Activities
Activity 1: Identify the difference between a modern and traditional houses+ (en bois, en brique, en
bous …).
• Show pictures of different types of houses (traditional and modern).
• Learners identify and describe modern and traditional houses in the pictures
provided (en bois, en brique, en bous ciment/en terre battue, en étage …).
• Explain the traditional and modern types of houses in French.
Traditionelle
Une maison en bous.
Une maison en bois.
Une maison en terre battue.
Moderne
Une maison en brique.
Une maison en étage.
Content Tips
Explain the structures
Il y a (there is). Y a t-il? (is there?)
?Explain the Prepositions en( made of ), au (à+ le) (at), Dans (in).
Quels types des maisons y a t-ilau village?
Au village, il y a des maisons en bous/ bois.
Dans mon village il y a des maisons en bous.
• In groups, learners name the types of houses they know.
• Learners draw and colour the two different types of houses.
• Conclude with a matching activity.
• Provide a list of material used for traditional and modern houses in French.
• Learners classify the materials according to the types of houses.
Activity 2: Reading a passage on modern and traditional houses and summarize the features of each
type in French.
• Provide a passage on characteristics of modern and traditional homes.
• Learners read a given passage and answer the questions.
Activity 3: Describing modern and traditional houses in writing.
• Learners write a short-guided composition describing their homes or houses.
?

Expected standard: Modern and traditional houses compared in French correctly
Key Points/ Recap
i. Different types of houses.
ii. Different materials used for building houses.
iii. Structures: Il y a (there is). Y a t-il? (is there).
iv. Prepositions: en ( made of ), au (à+ le) (at), Dans (in).
Specific Competence 1.10.1.2: Name different rooms and their use in a house.
Key Terms/Words/Vocabulary
Le vocabulaire
Les chambres, la chambre à coucher, le salon, la salle de bain, la salle à manger, la cuisine, les toilettes,
la douche...
La grammaire
Les verbes - Balayer, aérer, dormir, se coucher, s'asseoir, nettoyer, prendre une douche, se baigner,
laver, se laver, prévenir, jeter, boire, manger …
Learning Activities
Acticity 1: Naming different rooms in a house and their use (chambre, salle à coucher) Les chambres.
• Provide a sketch map of a house with different rooms (salle à coucher, salon).
• Explain the use of each room in the house (chambre - dormir, salon - regarder la télévision).
• In groups, leaners name items found in each room e.g. Dans le salon il y'a une télévision, une
table, une fauteuil.
• Learners match different rooms with their corresponding uses. e.g,
1. La chambre --------- dormir, étudier
2. La salle de bain ------- se doucher
Activity 2: Describing one's own house in French (coleurs, taille, chambres … ) (written and orally)
• Learners describe their houses and rooms by using different descriptive adjectives e.g.
Comment est la maison ? Notre maison est … Ma chambre est …
Activity 3: Writing a short-guided composition on a house of your choice.
• Learners write a short composition on a house of their choice and describe the rooms.
Expected Standard: Different rooms in a house and their use identified accordingly.
Key Points/ Recap
i. Names of different rooms in a house in French.
ii. Items found in rooms.
22
French Teaching Module: Form 1 - Term 2

Sub- Topic 1.10.2 Care for the Surrounding
Introduction
Living in a clean and conducive environment is key to good health. It is very important to take extra
care of our surroundings in order to promote sound health. This sub-topic focuses on hygiene
behavioral changes and tools that are needed to maintain a good surrounding.
Specific Competence 1.10.2.1: Describe a clean and dirty place.
Key Terms/Words/ Vocabulary
Le vocabulaire
La houe, la pelle, le balai, le torchon, l'eau, les déchets, le ménage, propre, sale, frais/fraîche,
organise, le choléra, la toux, la poussière, poussiéreux, brillant, tache, odeur, la poubelle...
La grammaire
Les verbes - nettoyer, ranger, faire, balayer, laver, arroser, fleurir, jardiner …
Learning Activities
Activity 1: Describing a clean and a dirty place in French.
• Provide two pictures. One showing a clean place and the other a dirty one.
• Learners compare the two pictures provided in groups.
• Explain the key words describing a clean and dirty place (propre, sale).
• Learners describe the two pictures using the French vocabulary learned. C'est propre, c' est
sale …
Activity 2: Use the verb 'être' to indicate that a place is clean or dirty e.g la salle est propre, la salle est
sale ou la chambre n'est pas propre.
• In groups, learners discuss whether their class or school is clean or dirty in French
•
Content Tips
¸Conjugate the verbs: balayer, travailler, nettoyer, faire and jeter in present tense.
e.g. clean: Notre classe est propre,
Elle est aérée.
Elle est fraiche
Elle est organisée.
e.g. dirty: Notre classe est sale
Elle n'est pas aérée
Elle n'est pas fraiche,
Elle n'est pas organisée
Learners write a short paragraph describing a clean or a dirty environment.
Activity 2: Discussing ways of keeping the surrounding clean (balayer, nettoyer, essuyer…).
23
French Teaching Module: Form 1 - Term 2

• Explain ways of keeping the surrounding clean e.g prendre soin de l'environnement, jeter
les déchets dans la poubelle, éviter de jeter les déchets dans la rue, nettoyer la place,
recycler les plastiques, arroser les fleurs… .
• Provide a passage on ways of keeping a surrounding clean.
• In groups, learners discuss the passage on ways of keeping the surrounding clean. (balayer
chaque jour, nettoyer la cour, garder la propriété…).
• Learners write a summary on ways of keeping the surrounding clean.
Activity 4: Identifying materials used for keeping the surrounding clean (balai, torchon, pelle …).
• Provide a list of assorted items found in a house in French e.g télévision, radio,
torchon, balai, houe, pelle, lit, … .
• In groups, learners identify the materials used to clean the surroundings from the
list provided.
• Introduce materials used for cleaning an environment. (le balai, le torchon, la houe, la
pelle…).
• Learners draw and label the cleaning materials in French.
• Learners translate the learned vocabulary into English e.g torchon - mop.
Activity 5: Stating negative effects of dirty surroundings.
• Explain negative effects of dirty surroundings e.g. contracter les maladies comme le
choléra, la toux, la dysenterie … .
• Provide a text on negative effects of dirty environment ( contracter le cholera, la
toux, la diarrhée …).
• In groups, learners read and discuss the passage on the negative effects of dirty
surroundings.
• Learners write a note summary on the negative effects of living in a dirty surroundings.
Expected Standards: A clean and dirty place described correctly.
Key Points/ Recap
i. Expressions used to talk about a dirty and a clean place.
ii. French vocabulary for cleaning materials.
iii. Negative effects of dirty environments in French.
Specific Competence 1.10.2.2: Discuss personal hygiene.
Key Terms/Words/ Vocabulary
Le vocabulaire
Santé, sale, douche, se baigner, propre, hygiène, se laver, brosser les dents, parfum, brosse á dents,
pâte dentifrice, savon, déodorant, ongles, cheveux, lait de beauté...
Balayer Travailler nettoyer jeter faire
Je balaye Travaille Nettoie Jette Fais
Tu balayes Travailles Nettoies Jettes Fais
Il/elle balaye travaille nettoie jette Fait
24
French Teaching Module: Form 1 - Term 2

La grammaire
Les verbes - brosser, se/laver, se baigner, se doucher, couper…
Learning Activities
Activity 1: Mentioning ways of keeping oneself clean. (se laver, couper des cheveux, …).
• Explain ways of keeping personal hygiene. (se laver, couper les cheveux, laver les
mains…).
• Guide learners on how to construct simple sentences on personal hygiene in French e.g
laver les mains après la toilette, avant/après manger, se laver/ prendre la douche chaque
jour, couper les ongles, coiffer les cheveux, brosser les dents chaque matin/ après manger
.....
• Provide a short passage on personal hygiene.
• Learners answer questions based on the given passage.
• Learners write a short paragraph on ways to keep oneself clean e.g. chaque matin, je me
brosse les dents. Je me lave les mains après la toilette…)
Activity 2: Drawing materials used for personal hygiene (le savon, la brosse à dent, de l'eau ...).
• Provide a list of materials used for personal hygiene in French. (le savon, le dentifrice,
l'eau …).
• Learners draw and label materials used for personal hygiene and make talking walls or a
photo gallery.
Activity 3: Writing dictated words in French.
• Learners write dictated words of the learned vocabulary on personal hygiene.
Expected Standards: Personal hygiene discussed accordingly.
•
•
•
•
Key Points/ Recap
i. Ways of keeping personal hygiene.
ii. Materials used for personal hygiene.
Teaching and learning Materials: Tempo 1, Equipe 1
Assessment
Note that assessment will be done during and after each learning activity.
Provide assessment for each learning activity which is meant to achieve the specific
competence.
The expected standard will be judged by the formative assessment for the learning activities
from all the sub-topics taught and the summative assessment given at the end of the each
topic
The assessment activities shall include project based tasks, practical demonstration,
written assessment (quizzes, open ended and closed questions…)
25
French Teaching Module: Form 1 - Term 2

REFERENCES
1. Capelle M.J et G. Achard-Bayle (1983 ) Contacts Hatier
2 Cicurel et. al.(1987) Commiquer en français Francine Hatier
3 Dominique PH. et. al.(1984 ) Sans Frontiére Cle International
4. Fabienne Gallon Celine Himber Aline (2017) Adomania 3 Hachette - Fle
5. Fabienne Gallon Celine Himber Alime (2018) Adomania 4 Hachette - Fle
6. Isabelle Rubio Emillio Ruiz (2016) Merci 3 Cle International
7. Mascie H. Taylor, Michael Spencer & S Honnor Tricolore Total 3 Student Book Oxford
University Press Revised ed.
8. Sylvia Honor & Heather Mascie-Taylor (1982) Tricolore Wheaton and Company Ltd.
9. Sophie Moirand( 1982 ) Comité de français Enseigner à comminiquer enfrançais langue
étrangère Hachette
10. Ministry of Education, Curriculum Development Centre (1989 ). Échange
11. Ministry of Education,, (2023). Environmental Health and Pollution Management
Education Framework, ,Curriculum Development Centre
12. Ministry of Finance and National Development, (2022). Eighth National Development Plan,
13. Ministry of Education,, (2023). Zambia Education Curriculum Framework, Curriculum
Development Centre
14. Ministry of Education,, (2024). French Language Syllabus (1 - 4), ,Curriculum Development
Centre .
26
French Teaching Module: Form 1 - Term 2