Classroom orders and instructions are essential for creating a productive and supportive learning
environment. A well ordered classroom minimizes distractions allowing learners to focus more on
their studies. In this subtopic, learners will learn key phrases used by teachers and learners in a French
speaking classroom such as common commands, instructions and questions that facilitate
communication.
Specific Competence 1.11.1.1: Use classroom orders and instructions in French.
Key Terms/ Words/ Vocabulary
Le vocabulaire
Les ordres - Ouvre ton livre à la page 3! / Ferme ton livre ! /Lève ta main gauche !
Regarde !/ Parle plus fort !/Sors !/ Assieds-toi !/ Entrez !/ Venez !/va à ta place!
Levez-vous! Asseyez –vous! Ecoutez! Repetez! Sortez! Taissez-vous...
La grammaire
Les verbes - Sortir, faire, parler, entrer, regarder, fermer, manger, retourner, venir, aller, dégager…

2
French Teaching Module: Form 1 - Term 3
Learning Activities
Activity 1: Listening to a list of French classroom expressions and find their meaning in English (Sortez -
Entrez - Taissez-vous…).
• Give instructions in French accompanied by gestures.
• Learners listen to a set of demonstrated instructions and respond appropriately.
e.g. Entrez !/ Venez ! Va a ta place ! Levez-vous.!
Activity 2: Discussing classroom expressions / commands /orders in French.
Content Tips
¸Revision on 'Les adjectifs possessifs'.
• In groups, learners find the meaning of the different classroom instructions and commands.
Activity 3: Dramatizing classroom expressions or orders (Levez-vous!, Asseyez vous!, Ecoutez!,
Repetez! …).
• Learners role play classroom orders.
Activity 4: Reading classroom expressions and translating them from French to English and vice versa.
• Learners read and translate classroom expressions from French to English and vice versa.
Expected Standard: Classroom orders and instructions used in French correctly.
Key Points /Recap
i. Common classroom instructions and orders.
Sub-Topic 1.11.2 My School Subjects
Introduction
This sub topic will enable learners to learn names of different school subjects in French and be able to
express preferences about their favorite and least favorite subjects. The sub-topic will also introduce
how to ask questions about subjects and discuss the subjects learners study.
Specific Competence 1.11.2.1: Identify different school subjects in French.
Key Terms/words/vocabulary
Le vocabulaire
Les matières - Le français,l'anglais,les mathématiques, le civisme, la géographie, l'histoire,l'éducation
religieuse, l'informatique, les sciences…

3
French Teaching Module: Form 1 - Term 3
La grammaire
Les Verbes - aimer, préférer, avoir, prendre, étudier...
Learning Activities
Activity 1: Listing different subjects offered in a school (le Français, les Mathématiques…).
• Learners mention the subjects they know in secondary school.
• Provide a simple passage on 'Les matières': e.g Le français, l'anglais,les mathématiques, le
civisme, la géographie, l'histoire, l'éducation religieuse, l'informatique, les sciences etc…
• Learners identify and list the different subjects mentioned in the passage.
Activity 2: Discussing school subjects (les matières préferées).
• In groups, learners make sentences using verbs préférer and aimer.
e.g J'aime le civisme
Nous préférons l'informatique.
Il n'aime pas la Chimie.
Content Tips
¸Comparatif : 'Que' e.g. Je préfère les mathématiques que la biologie.
¸Superlatif : plus … que, très … que.
La Science est plus facile que la géographie.
Le fançais est très intéressant que l'Histoire.
¸Egalité :Aussi …que. e.g.La physique est aussi difficile que la chimie.
¸Infériorité : Moins … que. e.g. L'anglaisest moins facile que les mathématiques.
¸Parce que … E.g. Je préfère les mathématiques parce que je veux être ingénieur.
Activity 3: Writing a simple composition on one's favourite subjects and explain why.
? Learners write a guided composition on subjects they like and why.
e.g: Your name, school, number and names of subjects, subjects preferred …
Expected Standard: Different school subjects identified in French correctly.
Key Points/ Recap
i. Names of school subjects in French.
ii. Le comparatif, le superlatif, L'égalité, l'infériorité.
Sub-Topic 1.11.3 School Timetable
Introduction
Planning is an important aspect of every person's daily activities. In this sub-topic, learners will learn
how to plan for their daily activities and come up with timetables in French. A school timetable is a
summarised plan that describes learners activities. It smoothly guides learners to pursue their
academic activities without any stress. This sub-topic discusses school and personal timetable and
classroom objects.
l

4
French Teaching Module: Form 1 - Term 3
Specific Competence 1.11.3.1: Draw up a school/personal time table
Key Terms/Words/Vocabulary
Le vocabulaire
Nom de l'école, heure, matière, les jours de la semaine, matin, midi, après-midi, recréation, classes …
La grammaire
Les Verbes - avoir, étudier, réviser, être …
Learning Activities
Activity 1: Discussing a school timetable (Remplir son emploi du temps avec les matières de son
école.)
• Provide and explain vocabulary that is related to a school timetable
e.g les matières, classes, jour de la semaine, récréation, heure
…
• Present a sample of a school timetable written in French.
• In groups, learners discuss the various French terms used on the given sample of
timetable.
Activity 2: Formulating own study timetable (l'horaire personnel).
• Provide learners with a blank timetable (a table with days of the week and times of the
day).
• Learners fill in the blank timetable given in French (Les mathématiques, le français…).
• After filling in their personal timetables, learners share with partners or the class on
what they do each day.
• Learners interpret their timetable and practice constructing simple sentences in
French using the vocabulary learned
e.g le lundi, j'ai les Mathématiques à 9.00 heures. Le vendredi, j'ai l'anglais après la
recréation …
Activity 3: Writing a simple composition including the name of your school/ subjects you take and
like.
• Provide a sample of guided composition in which a learner introduces him/herself and
talk about their favourite subjects.
e.g. Bonjour, je m'appelle Mulenga. J'ai quinze ans. J'habite à
Lusaka. Je suis un élève à l'école David Kaunda. J'aime le français et la géographie.
Ma matière préférée est … .
• Learners write a compositions using their own information as guided.
Expected Standard: School and personal timetables drawn correctly.
Key Points/ Recap
i. Features of a school/ personal study timetable.
ii. Formulating a school/ personal timetable.

5
French Teaching Module: Form 1 - Term 3
Specific Competence 1.11.3.2: Describe different classroom objects.
Key Terms/Words/ Vocabulary
Le vocabulaire
Les objets de classe - un stylo, un livre, un cahier, un sac, un tableau, un marqueur, une chaise, une
gomme, un règle, une calculatrice, un banc, une table, un frottoir un craie, un crayon, un ordinateur,
une dictionnaire, un atlas, un papier, une poubelle...
Les expressions
Voici, voilà, il y a, pouvez –vous me passer, prenez votre/ vos…, j'ai / je n'ai pas de …, c'est pour écrire/
lire/ effacer, qu'est-ce que c'est ? c'est le/la …, donnez-moi le/la…Qu'est-ce que c'est? C'est …
La grammaire
Les adjectifs démonstratifs …
Les Verbes - mettre, prendre, donner…
Learning Activities
Activity 1: Listing different classroom objects (la table, le tableau…)
• Show real items or images and say their names in French e.g un stylo, un crayon.
• Each learner picks an object from their desk and says its name in French
• Learners play a game (cherchez et trouvez une gomme …).
• Learners draw the classroom items and label them in French (la table, le stylo, le
banc, la gomme…).
• Provide a short passage about classroom objects.
• Learners answer questions from the passage.
Activity 2: Dramatizing the named classroom objects using interrogative expressions (Qu'est-ce que
c'est? C'est …)
• Learners dramatize the names of classroom objects.
e.g. Qu'est – ce que c'est ?
C'est le stylo.
Content Tips
¸Explain 'les adjectifs démonstratifs': ce, cet, cette, ces (this, these).
e.g ce livre est bleu, cet élève est intelligent, cette table est sale, ces stylos sont rouges.
Learners identify the correct 'adjectif démonstratif' e.g
1. … stylo
2. … ordinateur
3. … crayons
4. ... table

6
French Teaching Module: Form 1 - Term 3
Expected Standard: Different classroom objects described correctly.
•
•
•
•
Key Points/ Recap
i. Classroom objects in French
ii. Les adjectifs démonstratifs
Teaching and Learning Materials: Tempo 1, Equipe
Assessment
Note that assessment will be done during and after each learning activity.
Provide assessment for each learning activity which is meant to achieve the specific
competence.
The expected standard will be judged by the formative assessment for the learning
activities from all the sub-topics taught and the summative assessment given at the end of
the each topic.
The assessment activities shall include project based tasks, practical demonstration,
written assessment (quizzes, open ended and closed questions…)

7
French Teaching Module: Form 1 - Term 3
UNIT 12
TOPIC 1.12.0 DAILY ACTIVITIES
Overview
Expressing daily activities is a universal concept that is relevant and relatable to all learners,
regardless of their cultural background. This topic lays a foundation for everyday communication and
helps learners to gain confidence in daily conversations, whether discussing their morning routines or
leisure activities. It will enable learners to use key verbs and vocabulary while understanding the
rhythm of daily life in French-speaking cultures. Thus, this topic will help learners understand the
language and apply it to their real-life experiences and promote a more natural and practical use of
French this topic has one sub-topic namely Telling Time
General Competences
Communication
Learners will:
i Develop basic conversational skills to clearly and confidently describe daily routines in
French.
ii Engage in basic dialogues, asking and answering questions about daily routines.
Emotional Intelligence
Learners will:
i. Recognise and respond to emotions related to daily activities.
ii. Express personal feelings and emotions.
iii. Show empathy towards other people’s daily routines.
Critical Thinking
Learners will:
i. Compare and analyse different daily routines and habits among peers.
ii. Reflect on how daily habits can influence language use and social interaction.
Hook
Show a series of pictures representing different daily activities (e.g. waking up, eating breakfast,
going to work/school, exercising …). Ask students to identify these activities and arrange them in
the order of a typical day.
Sub-Topic 1.12.1 Telling Time
Introduction
Understanding how to tell time in French is a fundamental skill for learners. Time is an essential aspect
of daily life, and knowing how to express it accurately enables learners to engage in a variety of
everyday activities, from scheduling appointments to discussing plans and routines. In French, telling
time differs slightly from English, particularly in expressing hours and minutes, as well as in the formal
and informal structures used in conversations about time. This sub-topic will help learners not only
learn how to read a clock in French but also understand the rhythm and structure of French time
expressions.

8
French Teaching Module: Form 1 - Term 3
Specific Competence 1.12.1.1: Tell Time in French.
Key Terms/Words/Vocabulary
Le vocabulaire
lundi/mardi … janvier, février … le jour, la journée, le matin, l'après-midi, le soir, la nuit, le jour,
l'heure, minute, seconde, la soirée, le mois, la semaine, l'année, l'an, le temps, en retard, agenda,
programme, la montre/pendule …
Les expressions
faire la vaisselle, faire du sport, se brosser les dents, à quelle heure, le matin, l'après-midi, le soir, la
nuit, tous les jours, une fois par semaine ...
La grammaire
Le présent, le futur proche...
Les verbes - prendre, dire, faire, aller, raconter, suivre, narrer, retarder, se dépêcher, se doucher,
habiller, se laver, se lever manger, boire, se coucher, lire, regarder, préparer, étudier...
Learning Activities
Activity 1: Listening to a dialogue or conversation in which people ask and tell time in French (Quelle
heure est-il? Il est…)
• Provide a dialogue or conversation in which people ask and tell time.
• Learners identify expressions used to ask and tell time e.g Quelle heure est-il?
Il est quelle heure ? Vous avez l'heure, s'il vous plaît ? …
• Explain the expressions used to ask and tell time in French.
Activity 2: Asking and telling time in French.
• Provide different expressions used to ask and tell time in French.
Quelle heure est-il ? … Il est 7 heures 30.
Il est quelle heure ? Il est 12 heures.
Vous avez l'heure, s'il vous plaît ? Oui, il est 16 heures ....
• Use visual aids like a clock or digital timer showing different times. Read the time aloud and
ask learners to repeat after you.
• Use a large paper clock with moveable hands. Call each learner to position the clock hands
to match the time given.
• Explain expressions to indicate half hour and quarter hour in French (… et demi, … et quart
...) e.g. je mange à douze heures et demi, Le bus arrive à huit heures et quart.
Activity 3: Reading a passage on a bus schedule indicating departure and arrival time.
• Provide a passage on a bus schedule indicating departure or arrival time.
• Learners read the passage and answer questions relating to departure or arrival times.
e.g. A quelle heure le bus arrive à Kitwe? Le bus arrive à Kitwe à 14 heures 30.

9
French Teaching Module: Form 1 - Term 3
Activity 4: Writing how to ask and tell time in French (Quelle heure est-il? Il est 7 heures 30)
• Provide a written dialogue on asking and telling time with blank spaces e.g.
Masauso: Quelle heure est-il?
Namakao: .…. dix heures.
Masauso: C'est …. heure la géographie?
Namakao: La géographie est à ………..heures.
• Learners complete the dialogue on asking and telling time in French.
Expected Standard: Time expressed in French correctly.
Key Points/ Recap
i. Expressions used to ask and tell time in French.
Specific Competence 1.12.1.2: Narrate daily activities in French.
Learning Activities
Activity 1: Narrating daily activities in chronological order in reference to different times of the day (à
six heures, je me lave, à sept heures, je prends le petit déjeuner).
• Provide a passage of a person narrating their daily activities.
• Learners identify the activities of the person in the passage and what time they are
performed.
• In groups, learners narrate their daily activities with the time they are performed.
Activity 2: Making a diary in French
• Provide a written dialogue on daily routines in French. ? Learners role-play the dialogue in
French.
Nkisu: “A quelle heure tu prends ton petit déjeuner?” Wana: Je prends
mon petit déjeuner à huit heures et demi.
Nkisu: “Qu'est-ce que tu fais après l'école?” Wana: Je fais la
vaisselle.
• Provide a cloze passage on daily routine accompanied with possible answers.
Answers: douze, vais, je, à,
e.g. Le matin, je me lève …. 6h:45. A 8h:00, je … à l'école, et … mange mon déjeuner à
….heures.
• Learners complete the cloze passage on daily routine.
Activity 3: Writing on one's daily activities.
• Learners write a paragraph on their daily activities in a chronological order.

10
French Teaching Module: Form 1 - Term 3
Expected Standard: Daily activities narrated in French accordingly.
Key Points/Recap
i. Expressions used to talk about daily activities in French
ii. Expressions used to ask and tell time in French
Specific Competence 1.12.1.3: Identify days of the week and months of the year in French.
Learning Activities
Activity 1: Naming the days of the week (Lundi, mardi…) and months of the year
(janvier, février…)
• Provide a list of days of the week in French and their pronunciation.
• Learners write down the days of the week and pronounce them in French correctly.
• Provide a list of months of the year in French and their pronunciation.
• Learners write down the months of the year and pronounce them in French correctly.
Activity 2: Making a calendar
• Using a real calender, explain the features of a calender (la date, jours de la semaine, les mois
de l'année).
• Guide learners on how to make a calender
e.g
Step 1: write a year on top e.g. 2025.
Step 2: write a month on top e.g. Janvier, février …
Step 3: Fill in the days of the week e.g. lundi, mardi, mercredi, jeudi…
Step 4: Fill in the dates e.g. 1, 2, 3, 4…
• Learners make a calendar for the year.
Expected Standard: Days of the week and months of the year identified in French correctly.
Assessment
• Note that assessment will be done during and after each learning activity.
• Provide assessment for each learning activity which is meant to achieve the specific
competence.
• The expected standard will be judged by the formative assessment for the learning activities
from all the sub-topics taught and the summative assessment given at the end of each topic
• The assessment activities shall include project based tasks, practical demonstration, written
assessment (quizzes, open ended and closed questions…)

11
French Teaching Module: Form 1 - Term 3
Key Points/ Recap
i. Vocabulary for daily activities in French.
ii. Telling time.
iii. Narration of daily activities.
iv. Days of the week and months of the year in French.
v. Making a calendar.
Teaching and Learning Materials: Tempo 1/ Contact 1/Latitude 1/Visual Aids.

12
French Teaching Module: Form 1 - Term 3
UNIT 13
TOPIC 1 .13.0 THE PAST
Overview
The past refers to a time that has already happened, before the present moment. It could be recent
(yesterday, last week) or distant (years ago). The past usually means past tense and it is used to talk
about actions or events that have already happened. In French, learners start by learning passé
compose which is the most commonly used past tense in everyday conversations. It is used to talk
about completed actions in the past. This topic introduces learners to time expressions often used
with the past. It lays a foundation for expressing oneself more fully in French and leads to future
learning of other past tenses like imparfait. The topic has one Sub-topic namely, Past Actions.
General Competences
Communication
Learners will:
i. Develop communication skills by learning how to express past events share personal
experiences and engage in conversations using the passé composé both in their
spoken and written French.
Critical Thinking
Learners will:
i Analyse sentence structures, choose between the correct helping verbs (avoir
or être) and apply rules to various verbs and contexts.
Creativity and Innovation
Learners will:
i Create short stories about past experiences, encouraging them to use their
imagination.
Hook
Show a picture of an action and say 'Aujourd'hui, je mange. Hier, j'ai mangé'. Ask the learners to guess
the meaning of the second sentence.
Sub-Topic 1.13.1 The Past Actions
Introduction
Understanding past actions and the tenses used to describe them is essential as it allows learners to
share their experiences, tell stories and connect events that shape their day to day lives. In this sub
topic, learners will learn how to use le passé composé and l'imparfait to talk about completed actions
in the past.
Specific Competence 1.13.1.1: Describe past actions in French.
Key Terms /Words/ Vocabulary
Les expressions
Les expressions du temps - Hier (yesterday), La semaine dernière (last week), Il y a… (… ago), Ce
matin (this morning), Une fois (once)...
Grammaire
Le passé composé - je suis + (participe passé) /-il est + (participe passé) / j'ai +
(participe passé) l'opposition entre présent et passé composé ...

13
French Teaching Module: Form 1 - Term 3
L'auxiliaire (helping verb) - Either avoir or être, used to form the past tense.
Le participe passé - The past participle of the main verb (e.g.mangé, fini, pris).
Les verbes avec être - Verbs that use être in passé composé (often movement verbs, like aller, venir,
...), including reflexive verbs.
L'accord du participe passé - Agreement of the past participle with the subject (when using être or
with direct objects).
L'imparfait - J'étais malade hier/ Nous étions en France la semaine passée.
Learning Activities
Activity 1: Listening to a passage on past happenings (je suis allé hier, j ai mangé)
• Play an audio or read a passage in which le passé composé has been used for the learners to
understand the structure and its usage.
• Guide learners in identifying the structure (le passé composé) from the passage e.g. Hier, je
suis allé au marché. J'ai acheté une pomme.
• In groups, learners identify the structure (le passé composé) used from the passage given.
Activity 2: Composing le passé compose.
• Explain the formation of le passé compose.
Content Tips
¸Le passé composé (past tense) is used to talk about completed actions.
¸L'auxiliaire (helping verb) – Either avoir or être, used to form the past tense.
¸Conjugaison du verbe avoir et être au temps présent.
¸Formation du participe passé des verbes réguliers (er)
¸When forming the participe passé of -er verbs, remove -er and add é e.g manger - mangé.
Sujet + avoir + (participe passé).
Chanter : Elle a chanté.
Sujet+ être + (participe passé).
Aller : Je suis allé à l'église.
∑Learners complete sentences given with the correct form of the verbs in brackets using le
passé compose.
e.g. Il ... (achêter) la chemise. Il a achêté la chemise.
Activity 3: Distinguishing the verbs that use être and avoir
Content tips
Explain the following:
¸Le passé composé avec être
?

14
French Teaching Module: Form 1 - Term 3
i. some verbs have être as the auxziliary verb instead of avoir e.g. A group of common verbs
mostly connected with movement and change. Some of them fall into pair of opposites which
can help learners to learn.
aller (to go) - venir (to come)
arriver (to arrive) - partir (to leave)
entrer (to go in ) - sortir (to go out)
monter (to go up) - decendre (to go down)
naitre (to be born) - mourrrir (to die)
devenir (to become) - rentrer (to go back) - rester (to stay)
retourner (to return) - revenir (to come back) - tomber (to fall).
ii. All reflexive verbs use être as auxiliary verb. e.g. se laver, se lever.
Except from the verbs listed above, the rest use avoir as auxiliary verb.
∑Provide le participe passé of verbs that use the auxiliary être.
Content tips
Explain the following:
¸L'accord du participe passé en genre et en nombre – Agreement of the past participle with
the subject when using the ausxiliary être.
e.g. il est parti /elle est partie, ils sont allés /elles sont allées.
? ∑Learners transform the given sentences from present to le passé composé using être.
e.g. Elle va au marché - Elle est allée au marché.
Nous entrons dans la salle - Nous sommes entrées /entres dans la salle.
? ∑Learners complete the passage using the correct auxiliary verb and le participe passé.
e.g. Hier, je …. (aller)à l'école. Je ….. (arriver) à 7.30 heures. Nous ….(étudier) le
français avec mes amis. Apres classe, je ….. (rentrer) a la maison. Je …. (manger)
mon déjeuner à 13.00 heures.
Activity 4: Role playing past actions using être/avoir + participe passé ( passé composé)
• In pairs learners talk about what they did during the weekend.
Activity 5: Reading a passage on past happenings.
• Provide a short passage on past events.
• Learners respond to the questions based on the passage.
Activity 6: writing a story on past events using pictures.
• Provide picture stories.
• Learners narrate a story in the past using the given pictures.

15
French Teaching Module: Form 1 - Term 3
Activity 7: Composing a story from past events.
Content Tips
¸Introduce expressions used to narrate a story in the past.
e.g. Hier (yesterday), La semaine dernière (last week), Il y a… (… ago), Ce matin (this
morning), Quand J'étais petit(e), J'étais calme.
¸Explain l'imparfait
¸L'Imparfait is sometimes called the past continuous tense. It is not made up of two parts like le
passé composé, but it is just one word made of a stem and an ending.
¸The stem is the nous form of the present tense of the verb minus the -ons.
¸Formation of l'imparfait
Note: the endings are the same for all the verbs.
Je - ais Nous - ions
Tu - ais Vous - iez
Il /Elle/On - ait Ils /Elles - aient
• Explain how to write an imaginative story from the past events.
• Learners write an imaginative story from past events using le passé composé and l'imparfait.
Expected Standard: Past actions described in French correctly.
Assessment.
• Note that assessment will be done during and after each learning activity.
• Provide assessment for each learning activity which is meant to achieve the specific
competence.
• The expected standard will be judged by the formative assessment for the learning activities
from all the sub-topics taught and the summative assessment given at end of the topic.
• The assessment activities shall include project-based tasks, practical demonstration,
written assessment (quizzes, open-ended and closed questions…)
Key Points / Recap
I. Le passé composé,.
ii. L'auxiliaire (helping verb) – Either avoir or être, used to form the past tense.
iii. Le participe passé – mangé, fini, pris..
Verbe Nous form Stem L’imparfait
Regarder Nous regardons regard regardions
Prendre Nous prenons Pren Prenions

16
French Teaching Module: Form 1 - Term 3
iv. Les verbes avec être – Verbs that use être in passé composé (often movement verbs, like aller,
venir ...), reflexive verbs.
v. L'accord du participe passé
vi. L'imparfait
vii. Les expressions de temps en Français

17
French Teaching Module: Form 1 - Term 1
UNIT 14
WEATHER 1.14.0
Overview
The term weather encompasses a set of atmospheric conditions like temperature, rain, wind and sun
that are observed at specific time in a particular place. The topic is essential for learners as it provides
practical vocabulary and expressions useful in daily life. In French, discussing the weather not only
helps the learners build their conversational skills but also enables them to engage in everyday
interactions, whether making small talk with friends, checking the forecast, or planning activities.
Understanding the weather introduces important grammar structures that help learners to practice
both present tense and adjectives. This topic has three sub-topics namely, Weather conditions,
Clothes and Activities and Factors affecting Weather.
General Competences
Communication
Learners will:
i Engage in basic conversations about the weather, providing an excellent
opportunity to practice their listening and speaking skills.
Critical Thinking
Learners will:
i Make observations, comparisons and predictions as they discuss how the
weather impacts their daily lives or how it changes with the seasons.
Analytical thinking
Learners will:
i. Identify and interpret patterns in both the language and the world around them.
Hook
Show a picture depicting a cold weather and say 'aujourd'hui, il fait trés froid.'ask the learners what
the weather is like.
Key-Terms/Words/Vocabulary
Le vocabulaire
froid, chaud, pluie, vent, nuages, soleil, le printemps, l'été, l'automne, l'hiver, parapluie, feu
inondation, fumée, poussière neige
Les vêtements - manteau/tricot/gants/chapeau/veste/…
Les activités - pendant la saison des pluies … cultiver, / la saison sèche … pêcher/ la saison froide
…récolter/ moissonner.
Les expressions
Quel temps fait-il aujourd'hui /Il fait quel temps ? Quelle est la température d'aujourd'hui ?
Il fait(très) beau/mauvais/ Il y a du soleil/ Il fait mauvais/beau temps /Il pleut/il y a du vent/ Il y a
une tempête /des éclairs/ Il fait (très) chaud/frais/froid/ Il fait Cbrouillard /Il pleut/neige/il fait +
...(nombre) + degrés Celsius/ il y a du soleil...
La grammaire
le passé composé...
Les Verbes - Cultiver, défricher, labourer, récolter, pêcher, pleuvoir, briller, sécher, brûler, couper, jeter..

18
French Teaching Module: Form 1 - Term 3
Sub-Topic 1.14.1 Weather Conditions
Introduction
Weather conditions refers to the temporary and local state of the atmosphere at a specific place and
time, including factors such as: temperature, rain, clouds, wind. This sub-topic is essential for
learners as it equips them with the basic vocabulary and expressions needed to describe the various
weather conditions they encounter daily. The sub-topic will also enhance the learner's
comprehension skills and enable them to discuss and respond appropriately in social situations.
Furthermore, it will provide them with opportunities to practice adjectives and verbs in context,
helping them to construct simple sentences.
Specific Competences 1.14.1.1: Describe what the weather is like in French.
Learning Activities
Activity 1: Identify the expressions used to talk about weather from a given dialogue
(il fait beau, froid …)
• Provide a dialogue (audio) about weather. e.g
Michelo: Salut! Quel temps fait-il aujourd'hui ?
Mutale: Il fait beau et chaud.
Michelo: Ah, super! Hier il faisait très froid.
Mutale: Oui, il y a du soleil aujourd'hui.
• Guide the learners to read the dialogue and explain the expressions used to talk about
weather.
• In pairs, learners role-play the dialogue on weather.
Activity 2: Discussing what the weather is like on a particular day.
• Introduce more expressions to talk about weather. e.g. Il pleut, il fait du vent.
• In groups, learners describe the weather of a particular day.
Activity 3: Display a chart showing different types of weather conditions.
• Provide a chart showing different types of weather conditions.
• Learners construct sentences on the different weather conditions displayed on the chart.
Activity 4: Reading a passage on different types of weather conditions and answer questions based
on the passage.
• Provide a passage on different types of weather conditions.
• Learners answer questions based on the passage.
Activity 5: Writing different dictated expressions used to talk about weather in French.
• Dictate different expressions used to talk about weather in French.
• Learners write the dictated expressions.
Expected standard: Weather described in French correctly.
Key Points /Recap
i. Expressions used to talk about weather in French.

19
French Teaching Module: Form 1 - Term 3
Specific- Competence 1.14.12: Identify various seasons in French.
Learning Activities
Activity 1: Discussing the different seasons in Zambia (saison sèche, saison de pluie.)...
• Learners name different seasons in Zambia.
• Explain the different seasons in Zambia (saison sèche, saison de pluie …)? Learners identify
months of the year for each season in French.
e.g. saison de pluie - octobre, novembre, décembre, janvier, février, mars, avril.
Activity 2: Describing the different seasons in French (local/foreign) printemps, hiver, été,
automne)
? Introduce and explain the seasons in French
e.g. Printemps, l'hiver, l'été, l'automne)
• Learners read and pronounce the seasons correctly.
• Learners watch a video / images of different seasons in French.
• Learners match the given images to the correct seasons in French.
Expected standard: Seasons identified correctly.
Key Points/Recap
i. Seasons in Zambia.
ii. Seasons in France.
Sub-Topic 1.14.2 Clothes and Activities
Introduction:
Weather plays an important role in our daily lives. It influences our activities, mood, and clothes.
Depending on the season, we adapt our clothes and activities to feel comfortable and enjoy the
weather.
Specific Competence 1.14.2.1: Describe activities and clothes associated with seasons in French.
Key Terms/Words/Vocabulary
Le vocabulaire
Un T-shirt, un tricot, une chemise, un pantalon, un shorts, une jupe, des chaussures, un veste, un
écharpe, faire du vélo, pique-nique, faire du jardinage, cultiver, le printemps, l'hiver, l'été … .
Learning Activities
Activity 1: Listening to a dialogue or conversation in which people are discussing clothes
associated with the different seasons (froide – le tricot, sèche - culotte, Tshirt).
• Provide a passage or dialogue on different seasons and the type of clothes to wear.
e.g. Dialogue on Weather
Wana : Salut Wanji ! Il fait très froid aujourd'hui, non ?

20
French Teaching Module: Form 1 - Term 3
Wanji : Oui, c'est la saison froide ! Moi, je mets un manteau et un tricot.
Wana : Moi aussi ! Et j'adore boire du chocolat chaud quand il fait froid.
Wanji : Et toi, qu'est-ce que tu mets dans la saison sèche ?
Wana : Je mets un t-shirt, une jupe ou un short, et des sandales. Et toi ?
Wanji : Moi, je mets une culotte et des lunettes de soleil. J'aime aller à la mer !
Wana : Et la saison de pluie, quand il pleut ?
Wanji : Je mets un imperméable et des baskets. Et toi ?
Wana : Je porte un manteau de pluie et des bottes et j'apporte aussi un parapluie.
Wanji: ok. Au revoir!
Wana : A bientôt!
• Learners identify and mention each type of season and clothes to wear.
• Learners match the different clothes to the correct seasons in French.
Activity 2: Discussing activities associated with different seasons (froide- récolter, pluie-cultiver).
• Learners discuss activities done in each season.
e.g: froide-récolter, pluie-cultiver.
Activity3: Reading a passage on clothes and activities associated with different seasons (make note
summaries)
• Provide a passage on clothes and activities associated with different seasons.
• In pairs, learners read the passage provided and make summary notes.
• Learners write a summary on clothes and activities associated with different seasons.
Expected standard: Activities and clothes for specific seasons described in French correctly.
Key Points/Recap
i. Activities and clothes associated with seasons in French.
ii. Expressions used to describe seasons in French.
Sub- Topic 1.14.3. Factors affecting Weather
Introduction
Weather is a complex phenomenon that is influenced by many factors such as atmospheric
conditions, geographic factors and human activities. Understanding the factors that influence the
weather is essential for predicting weather conditions and marking informed decisions to protect
people and the world we live in.
Specific Competence.1.14.3.1: Discuss factors affecting weather in Zambia
Key Terms /Words /Vocabulary
Le vocabulaire :
Le temps, températures, vent, humidité, changement climatique, la météo, sombre.
Learning Activities
Activity 1: Identifying factors affecting weather from a given passage (temperature, les vents)

• Provide a passage on factors affecting weather.
e.g. La météo change chaque jour. Il fait chaud quand le soleil brille. Il fait froid quand il y a
du vent. Les nuages cachent le soleil. Le ciel est sombre quand il pleu beaucoup.
• Learners read and identify factors affecting weather.
e.g. le soleil, la température, le vent, les nuages ….
Activity 2: Discussing factors affecting weather in Zambia.
• Explain other factors affecting weather in Zambia.
e.g. déforestation, changement climatique, sécheresse ...
• Give summarized notes in French on factors affecting climate change in Zambia.
Expected standard: Factors affecting weather discussed in French correctly.
Assessment
• Note that assessment will be done during and after each learning activity.
• Provide assessment for each learning activity which is meant to achieve the specific
competence.
• The expected standard will be judged by the formative assessment for the learning activities
from all the sub-topics taught and the summative assessment given at end of the topic.
• The assessment activities shall include project-based tasks, practical demonstration, written
assessment (quizzes, open-ended and closed questions…)
Key Points/Recap
i. Expressions to talk about weather in French
ii. Clothes and activities to suite the weather
iii. Factors affecting weather in Zambia
Teaching and learning material: Tempo 1, Tricolore 2/ 4 Contacte 1/2
French Teaching Module: Form 1 - Term 3
21

French Teaching Module: Form 1 - Term 3
REFERENCES
1. Capelle M.J et G. Achard-Bayle (1983 ) Contacts Hatier
2. Cicurel et. al.(1987) Commiquer en français Francine Hatier
3. Dominique PH. et. al.(1984 ) Sans Frontiére Cle International
4. Fabienne Gallon Celine Himber Aline (2017) Adomania 3 Hachette - Fle
5. Fabienne Gallon Celine Himber Alime (2018) Adomania 4 Hachette - Fle
6. Isabelle Rubio Emillio Ruiz (2016) Merci 3 Cle International
7. Mascie H. Taylor, Michael Spencer & S Honnor Tricolore Total 3 Student Book Oxford University
Press Revised ed.
8. Sylvia Honor & Heather Mascie-Taylor (1982) Tricolore Wheaton and
Company Ltd.
9. Sophie Moirand (1982 ) Comité de français Enseigner à comminiquer enfrançais langue
étrangère Hachette
10. Ministry of Education, Curriculum Development Centre (1989 ). Échange
11. Ministry of Education,, (2023). Environmental Health and Pollution
Management Education Framework, ,Curriculum Development Centre
12. Ministry of Finance and National Development, (2022). Eighth National
Development Plan,
13. Ministry of Education,, (2023). Zambia Education Curriculum Framework, Curriculum
Development Centre
14. Ministry of Education,, (2024). French Language Syllabus (1 - 4), ,Curriculum Development
Centre .
22