The Form 2 Adapted Mathematics Teaching Module has been developed to guide teachers on
how to facilitate competence-based lessons at this level. The module aims to provide quality
education that is aligned with the competence-based curriculum and 21st Century Skills. It also
aims to facilitate the development of knowledge, skills, values and positive attitudes that are
aimed at enabling learners with visual impairment to live and grow into productive and useful
members of their communities and the Zambian society.
PURPOSE OF THE MODULE
The purpose of the module is to illustrate teaching and learning activities that: are consistent
with teaching and learning in a competence-based curriculum; show processes that allow
achievement of 21st century skills such as creativity, collaboration, communication, and
critical thinking; Illustrate what activity-based and learner-centred teaching and learning could
look like.
HOW TO USE THE MODULE
This module provides suggested learning activities and teaching strategies that enhance
learners’ mathematical competencies. The suggested activities are designed to offer learners
hands-on experiences through the manipulation of tasks that are interactive and learning
through practice. We should bear in mind that the desired competences and 21st century skills
will NOT be achieved by the topics ‘covered’ but by how teaching and learning activities are
carried out. For example, asking learners to give reasons for their answers, whether or not the
answer is right; to plan for solving a problem; to consider alternative ways of solving a problem
even if the first method yields a correct answer and to consider which of the methods is better;
to acknowledge that even in Mathematics, more than one correct answer is possible, for
example, “What two numbers when added have 5 as the answer?”
Activities in the Module are meant to be incorporated into the teacher’s lesson plan. The
activities are NOT meant to replace the teacher’s lesson plan. The topics and activities in the
Module are as specified in the 2023 Adapted Mathematics Form 1 to 4 syllabus. There might
be terms used in the Module that are not the same as those in the syllabus, but this is in the
interest of using language that might be more learner-friendly. Teachers are encouraged to vary
the environment when conducting lessons to create a good atmosphere for learning and
teaching, which is learner-friendly.
Each topic in the Module begins with a Hook. A Hook is an opening statement at the start of
the topic that seeks to stimulate learners’ curiosity and motivate them to learn. Teachers may
create their hooks that provoke their learners’ curiosity and motivation. A hook can be a
provocative question, a scenario or something that puts learners into a thinking mood. Let the
designed hook incline towards problem-solving scenarios.

Mathematics Teaching Module Form 2 – Term 2
2
TOPIC 3: ALGEBRAIC EXPRESSIONS
1. INTRODUCTION
Overview: Algebra is a powerful language of mathematics that helps us describe patterns,
relationships, and real-life situations using symbols and numbers. Algebraic expressions are
used in everyday life, such as calculating costs, planning budgets, measuring distances, and
solving problems where exact values are not yet known. In this module, learners will expand
and simplify algebraic expressions, factorize linear and quadratic expressions, and simplify
algebraic fractions.
General Competence(s):
● Analytical Thinking: Learners analyse algebraic expressions to identify variables,
coefficients, and operations in order to simplify or manipulate them correctly.
● Creativity and Innovation: Learners apply different methods and strategies to expand,
factorise, and simplify algebraic expressions in new or efficient ways.
● Critical Thinking: Learners evaluate algebraic steps and verify whether the
simplification or factorisation of an expression is correct.
● Problem Solving: Learners use algebraic expressions to represent and solve
mathematical and real-life problems involving unknown quantities.
● Communication: Learners explain their reasoning, methods, and solutions when
simplifying or manipulating algebraic expressions.
● Collaboration: Learners work together in groups or pairs to discuss, solve, and verify
algebraic expressions and related problems.
● Digital Literacy: Learners may use calculators, computers, or educational software to
check solutions and explore algebraic expressions.
● Entrepreneurship: Learners apply algebraic expressions to situations involving profit,
cost, and pricing when solving business-related problems.
● Financial Literacy: Learners use algebraic expressions to represent financial situations
such as calculating expenses, savings, income, or profit.
● Problem Solving: Algebraic expressions help learners develop the ability to find
solutions to mathematical and everyday challenges involving unknown values.
Hook: Have you ever wondered how letters and numbers can be used to describe almost
anything in the world?
Key Terms:
● Algebraic Expression: A mathematical phrase made up of numbers, variables, and
operations (such as addition, subtraction, multiplication, or division).
● Variable: A letter or symbol that represents an unknown value (e.g., x, y, a).
● Constant: A fixed numerical value that does not change (e.g., 5, negative 3, 10).
● Coefficient: A number that multiplies a variable (e.g., in 3x, 3 is the coefficient).

Mathematics Teaching Module Form 2 – Term 2
3
● Term: A single part of an algebraic expression separated by addition or subtraction
signs (e.g., in 3x plus 4y minus 5, the terms are 3x, 4y, and negative 5).
● Like Terms: Terms that have the same variables raised to the same powers (e.g., 2x
and 5x).
● Unlike Terms: Terms that have different variables or different powers of variables
(e.g., 3x and 3y).
● Simplifying: The process of combining like terms to make an algebraic expression
shorter or easier to work with.
● Factorisation: Writing an algebraic expression as a product of two or more factors.
● Algebraic Fraction: A fraction where the numerator, denominator, or both contain
algebraic expressions.
Exponent (Power): A number that shows how many times a variable or number is
multiplied by itself (e.g., in x squared, 2 is the exponent).
● Bracket (Parenthesis): Symbols used to group terms in an expression, such as ( ).

Mathematics Teaching Module Form 2 – Term 2
4
SUB-TOPIC 1- EXPAND AND SIMPLIFY ALGEBRAIC EXPRESSIONS
INTRODUCTION
In this subtopic, learners will discuss Braille symbols used in algebraic expressions and the
simplification of algebraic expressions. Learners should explore real-life situations involving
expanding and simplifying expressions (such as managing budgets, planning, production,
tracking expenses, and scheduling activities) in Braille.
Specific Competences: Use algebraic expressions in problem solving.
Learning Activity 1: Discussing Braille Symbols Used in Algebraic Expressions
Activity 1.1: Group work, pair work.
Instructions
1. Provide learners with the following Braille mathematical symbols used in algebra:
a) Letters (variables) in Braille (x, y, a, b…)
b) Numbers and number indicators
c) Operational signs (plus, minus, times, divide by)
d) Round brackets, square brackets
e) Equality sign (equals)
2. Ask learners to read and identify the given Braille symbols aloud.
3. Ask learners to match Braille symbols to their meanings such as identifying which symbol
represents multiplication.
4. Ask learners to write simple algebraic expressions in Braille such as: x plus 3, 2y minus 5
and present.
Learning Activity 2: Simplifying Algebraic Expressions in Braille
Activity 2.2: Group work, pair work.
Instructions
1. Provide learners with the following embossed algebraic expressions:
a) 3x plus 2x
b) 5y minus y plus 4
c) 2a plus 3b minus a
2. Ask learners to identify and read aloud like terms
3. Ask learners to group like terms
4. Ask learners to add or subtract like terms

Mathematics Teaching Module Form 2 – Term 2
5
5. Ask learners to write and present
Activity 2.3: Individual work
Instructions
1. Provide learners with the following embossed algebraic terms:
d) 3x, 2x and negative x.
e) 3y, 2y, y
f) X, 2y and 9
2. Ask learners to identify and read the given terms
3. Ask learners to formulate algebraic expressions from the terms given
4. Ask learners to add or subtract like terms
Content Tips
● An algebraic expression combines numbers, variables, and operations such as addition,
subtraction, multiplication, or division, but does not include an equality sign
● To simplify algebraic expressions, look for terms that have the same variable(s) with
the same exponent.
● Only like terms can be added or subtracted, and constants can be added or subtracted.
● Pay attention to plus and minus signs.
● For instance, Example: 4x plus 5 minus 3 plus 2x equals 6x plus 2.
Learning Activity 3: Exploring Real-Life Situations Involving Expanding and
Simplifying Expressions in Braille (such as managing budgets, planning, production,
tracking expenses, scheduling activities) in braille.
Activity 3.1: Group work, pair work.
i. Present real-life scenarios to learners:
ii. Ask learners to read the scenarios
iii. Ask learners to translate these scenarios into algebraic expressions
iv. Ask learners to expand where necessary, and simplify the expressions.
Scenarios
a) Pela spends t hours of studying per subject. Write an expression for the number of hours
he spends on 4 subjects.
b) Sula wants to buy gifts for her 3 sisters, each gift costs x kwacha. She also pays K2 for
wrapping each gift.
i) Write an expression for the cost of each gift
ii) find the total cost for the gifts.

Mathematics Teaching Module Form 2 – Term 2
6
c) There are 5 form two classes in the school, each learner is contributing x kwacha
towards a party. Given that the number of learners in each class is y, find the total
amount raised if the contribution was made twice.
d) Luwi sells some 50kg bags of maize to FRA at K340 each, boxes of tomatoes at K50
each and trays of eggs at K90 each.
a. Write the algebraic expression for each sale.
b. Write the algebraic expression for the total sales.
Activity 3.2: Individual work
Instructions
1. Present real-life scenarios to learners:
2. Ask learners to read the scenarios
3. Ask learners to translate these scenarios into algebraic expressions
4. Ask learners to expand where necessary, and simplify the expressions.
Scenarios
a) A farmer planted trees in rows. Each row has 12 trees.
i) Write an expression for the total number of trees planted in x rows.
b) A water tank fills y litres of water every minute.
i) Write an expression for the amount of water in the tank after 15 minutes.
c) A learner pays K3 for entering the library and K2 for each book borrowed. If the learner
borrows x books:
i) write an expression for the cost of x book.
d) A gardener plants x rows of flowers, and each row contains (x plus 2) flowers.
i) Write an expression for the total number of flowers.
ii) Expand the expression
e) A farmer has a square garden where each side measures x metres. Inside the garden
there is also a small storage shed with an area of 9 metres squares.
i) Write an algebraic expression for the area of the garden
ii) Determine the area of the remaining part of the garden.
Content Tips
To write Algebraic Expressions from Scenarios

Mathematics Teaching Module Form 2 – Term 2
7
Identify the variable(s)
Determine what is unknown or changing in the problem.
Represent the unknown with any letter of choice
Identify constants: Look for fixed values in the scenario (costs, fees, quantities), for example
if the entrance fee is K5 then the constant is 5.
Determine the operation: Decide whether to add, subtract, multiply, or divide based on the
scenario. For example, if a book costs K3 and K2 for packaging, multiply 3 by x, for x books
add K2 for packaging.
Break the scenario into parts: Write an expression for each component, then combine.
Example: Total cost equals cost of books plus packaging is written as 3x plus 2.
Use parentheses for groups: If a quantity has multiple components, enclose it in parentheses.
Example: Luwi sells some 50kg bags of maize to FRA at K340 per 50kg of bag, boxes of
tomatoes at K60 each and trays of eggs at K90 each.
i)choose any letter of your choice to represent the unknown. For instance, let x be the number
of bags, y be the number of boxes of tomatoes and z be the number of trays of eggs. Each
sale. Find the total sale of each by multiplying the number of items sold and the price to
get 50(x) plus 60(y) plus 90(z)

Mathematics Teaching Module Form 2 – Term 2
8
SUB-TOPIC 2: FACTORIZE LINEAR AND QUADRATIC EXPRESSIONS
INTRODUCTION
This subtopic focuses on identifying the fraction symbol, simplifying algebraic fraction and
factorizing linear and quadratic expressions in braille.
Specific Competences- Learners to: Use algebraic expressions in problem solving.
Learning Activity 1: Identifying the Fraction Symbol in Braille
Activity 1.1: group, pair work, individual
Instruction
1. provide learners with embossed Braille samples containing common fractions (1 over
2, 3 over 4, a over b, …)
2. Ask learners to tactually explore and identify the Braille symbols such as fraction line,
numerator, denominator.
3. Ask learners to correctly identify, read, and interpret the fraction symbol and related
notations in Braille.
4. Learners write given fractions in Braille using a slate or Perkins Brallier.
Content tips
● Explains the Braille fraction indicator and how it differs from whole numbers.
● Learners read fractions aloud from Braille texts, reinforcing correct symbol recognition.
Learning Activity 2: Simplifying Algebraic Fractions in Braille
Activity 2.1: Group work, pair work
Instructions
1. Provide learners with embossed samples of algebraic fractions such as x over 2, 4x over
8, (x minus 4) over 2, 3 over xy, negative x over 2, 6xy over 9y, (2x plus 4) over 2
2. Ask learners to read the algebraic fractions
3. Ask learners to identify the numerator, denominator in the given fractions.
4. Ask learners to identify variables and coefficients.
5. Ask learners to simplify
i) 4x over 8
ii) 6xy over 9y
iii) x over 2 plus 1

Mathematics Teaching Module Form 2 – Term 2
9
iv) xy plus (6xy over 9y)
6. Ask learners to present their findings by explaining each simplification step verbally.
Activity 2.2: Individual work.
Instruction
1. Provide learners with algebraic terms and expressions.
2. ask learners to simplify the given algebraic fractions.
3. Ask each learner to simplify algebraic fractions and record their answers in Braille.
i) 2x over 4
ii) 3xy over 6y
iii) (x over 2) plus (3x over)
iv) (y plus 2) over 3 plus (2y plus 1) over 3
v) 2x over 3 times 4 over 5
vi) 3x over 4 times 2x over 5
Content tips
● Given an algebraic fraction, identify the numerator and denominator
● Look for common factors in the numerator or denominator.
● Divide numerator and denominator by the same factor.
● Example: 2x over 4, divide the numerator and the denominator by the common factor
2 and the result is x over 2.
● fractions can be split if needed by dividing each term separately by the denominator.
For example, (6x plus 12) over 6 equals 6x over 6 plus 12 over 6, which gives x plus 2.
● Note that only terms with the same variable and power can be combined.
Learning Activity 3: Factorising Linear and Quadratic Expressions in Braille
Activity 3.1: Group work.
Instructions.
1. Provide learners with embossed linear expressions
2. Ask learners to explore how expressions can be factored.
3. Ask learners to factorise the following linear expressions in pairs.
a) a 3x plus 9.
b) 2a plus 4b.

Mathematics Teaching Module Form 2 – Term 2
10
c) 6ab plus 9ac.
d) 12xy minus 18xz
e) ax plus ay plus bx plus by
f) 18xy plus 24xz plus 30xw.
g) 2a plus 2b plus 7a7b
h) Pq plus pr plus 5q plus 5r
Ask learners to present their findings.
Activity 3.2: Individual Activity.
Instructions
1. Provide learners with embossed linear expressions
2. Ask learners to explore how expressions can be factored.
3. Ask learners to factorise the following linear expressions in pairs.
a) 5y minus 15.
b) 4x plus 8y plus 12
c) 6mn plus 12mp minus 18mq
d) 3a plus 3b plus 7a plus 7b
e) 2px plus 2py plus 5qx plus 5qy
f) 4ax minus 4ay plus 7bx minus 7by
Content tips
● To factorise a linear expression, identify the greatest common factor
● Look at all the terms in the expression.
● Find the greatest common factor that appears in each term.
● This common factor will be taken out first, then write the remaining terms inside
brackets and divide each term by the common factor.
● If the common factor is negative, the signs inside the bracket change.
● For example, in the expression 5y plus 15, common factor is 5 and the expression
reduces to y plus 3,
● Also, 2px plus 2py plus 5qx plus 5qy, the common factor for 2px and 2py is 2p while
the common factor for 5qx and 5qy is 5q. The expression becomes 2p(x plus y) plus 5q
(x plus y) which reduces to (2p plus 5q)(x plus y).
● Ensure that learners are guided step by step to resolve the given tasks and pay attention
to positive and negative signs when factoring.
Activity 3.3: Group work, pair work
Instructions.
4. Provide learners with embossed quadratic expressions
5. Ask learners to explore how expressions can be factored.

Mathematics Teaching Module Form 2 – Term 2
11
6. Ask learners to factorise the following linear expressions in pairs.
a) 2x squared plus 6x.
b) m squared minus 5m.
c) y squared minus 9
d) 25x squared minus 4y squared
e) 25p squared plus 30p minus 35
f) x squared plus 5x plus 6
Activity 3.4: Individual work
Instructions.
7. Provide learners with embossed quadratic expressions
8. Ask learners to explore how expressions can be factored.
9. Ask learners to factorise the following linear expressions independently.
a) 3x squared plus 9x
b) n squared minus 7n
c) 36x squared minus 9y squared
d) a squared minus 16
e) 20p squared plus 40p plus 20
f) X squared plus 7x plus 12
Content tips
● To factorise a quadratic expression, identify the greatest common factor
● Look at all the terms in the expression.
● Find the greatest common factor that appears in each term.
● This common factor will be taken out first, then write the remaining terms inside
brackets and divide each term by the common factor.
● If the common factor is negative, the signs inside the bracket change.
● For example in the expression n squared minus 9 n, common factor is n and the
expression reduces to n(n minus 9).
● Recognize the expression in the form a squared minus b squared (difference of two
squares, both terms must be perfect square and separated by a minus sign).
● Example: 25x squared minus 16 can be reduced to (5x) squared minus 4 squared. This
further reduces to the form (5x minus 4)(5x plus 4)
● For quadratic expressions in the form of ax squared plus bx plus c, find the product of
ac
● Find the factors of ac whose sum is equal to b
● Express bx as a sum using the two factors
● Factor by grouping terms
● For example, 20p squared plus 40p plus 20 can be factorised as; first factor out 20 which
gives 20(p squared plus p plus p plus 1), and this reduces to 20(p plus 1)(p plus 1)

Mathematics Teaching Module Form 2 – Term 2
12
● Ensure that learners are guided step by step to resolve the given tasks and pay attention
to positive and negative signs when factoring.

Mathematics Teaching Module Form 2 – Term 2
8
SUB-TOPIC 3: SIMPLIFY ALGEBRAIC FRACTIONS
INTRODUCTION
This subtopic focuses on simplifying algebraic fractions and using algebraic expressions in
solving real life problems.
Specific Competences- Learners to: Use algebraic expressions in problem solving.
Learning Activity 1: Simplifying Algebraic Fractions in Braille
Activity 1.1: Group, pair work
Instructions
1. Provide learners with embossed algebraic fractions
2. Ask learners to read the algebraic fractions
3. Ask learners to identify the numerator, denominator in the given fractions.
4. Ask learners to identify variables and coefficients.
5. Ask learners to work in pairs or groups to simplify the following:
i) 2 over x plus 3 over 2x
ii) 6xy over 9y
iii) (x plus 2) over (x squared minus 4)
iv) (x squared plus 5x) over (x squared plus 3x)
v) (2x squared plus 7x plus 3) over (x squared plus 3x plus 2)
6. Ask learners to present their findings by explaining each simplification step verbally.
7. Ask learners to write their working
Activity 2.2: Individual work.
Instructions
1. Provide learners with embossed algebraic fractions
2. Ask learners to read the algebraic fractions
3. Ask learners to identify the numerator, denominator in the given fractions.
4. Ask learners to work independently and simplify the following:
i) 6x squared y over 9xy
ii) (x squared minus 9) over (x squared plus 6x plus 9)
iii) (4a squared minus 16) over 8a
iv) (x squared plus 5x) over (x squared plus 3x)

Mathematics Teaching Module Form 2 – Term 2
9
v) (2x squared plus 7x plus 3) over (x squared plus 3x plus 2)
Content tips
 Given an algebraic fraction, identify the numerator and denominator
 Check for the type of the expression on the numerator and denominator
 Look at all terms, take out any common number or variable for example, in the fraction
6xy over 9y, 3y is a common factor for both numerator and denominator. So when we
divide 3y into the numerator and the denominator, we get 2x over 3.
 Look for Special Patterns in the denominator or numerator:
 For example, (x plus 2) over (x squared minus 4), can be simplified as x plus 2 over (x
plu2)(x minus 2), divide x plus 2 into the numerator and denominator. Therefore, the
simplified fraction is 1 over (x minus 2). (using the idea of the difference of two squares
for the denominator).
 If either the numerator or denominator is in the form ax squared plus bx plus c, first
factorise and simplify, for example: (2x squared plus 7𝑥 plus 3) over (x plus 3) when
factorised will be (2𝑥 plus 1)(𝑥 plus 3) over (x plus 3), divide the numerator and
denominator by x plus 3.
 Therefore, the simplified expression is 2x plus 1
Learning Activity 2: Using Algebraic Expressions to Solve Real-Life Problems
Activity 2.1: Group work
Instruction:
1. Provide the learners with the following embossed real-life scenarios.
2. Ask learners to formulate algebraic expressions from the given scenarios and simplify
where possible.
a) Mr Kalandanya works in a mine and earns K15 per hour. If he works for h hours a
week, and his expenses are x Kwacha per week, write an algebraic expression for his
weekly savings.
b) A construction team can build 3 wall sections per day. If they have already completed
w wall sections and need to build a total of 50 wall sections, write an expression for the
number of additional days, d, they will need to finish the project.
c) The temperature at noon is T degrees Celsius. If the temperature drops by 3 degrees
every hour, write an expression for the temperature after h hours.
d) Mr Kalandanya works in a mine and earns K15 per hour. If he works for h hours in a
week and receives a fixed K3 transport allowance per week:
i) Write an algebraic expression for his total weekly earnings
ii) Write an algebraic expression for the total wage after two weeks

Mathematics Teaching Module Form 2 – Term 2
10
3. Ask learners to present their findings through step-by-step guidance.
Activity 2.2: Individual work
Instruction:
1. Provide the learners with the following embossed real-life scenarios.
2. Ask learners to formulate the algebraic expression step by step
3. Ask learners to simplify as far as possible
a) A salesperson earns a basic salary of K1200 per month plus a 10% commission on all
sales. If they make s kwacha of sales in a month, write an expression for their total
sales.
b) A library receives (k plus 5) new books each month. If this continues for 2 months,
write and expand the expression for the total number of books received.
c) A car has a fuel tank capacity of 15 litres. If the car consumes 0.5 litres of fuel per hour
of driving. Write an expression for the amount of fuel, F, remaining in the tank after
driving for h hours, assuming it started with a full tank.
d) A rectangular garden has a length (x plus 5) metres and a width x metre.
i) Write an expression for the area of the garden.
ii) Expand the expression.
Content Tips:
● Read and understand the problem
● Identify the unknown and assign a variable to it.
● Break down the word problem into smaller pieces and identify numbers, operations,
and relationships.
● Specify the operations to use
● Formulate the algebraic expression based on the translated information.
● Simplify where possible
Examples
● From activity 2.1 (a), the sales in a month are represented by s
● 10 percent commission for the sales in a month is 10 over 100 times s
● Total sales are 1200 plus 10s over 100, equals (1200 plus 0.1s) in its simplest form
Expected Standard: Algebraic expressions applied accurately in problem solving.
Assessment
1. Simplify the following expressions:
a) 3x plus 2x
b) 5y minus y plus 4
c) 2a plus 3b minus a
d) 2x over (2x plus 4)
e) x squared plus 5x

Mathematics Teaching Module Form 2 – Term 2
11
2. Expand and simplify
a) 2(x plus 5) plus 3 (x minus 2)
b) 5(a plus 2) minus 3(a minus 4)
c) 3(2x plus 5y).
d) Negative 4(a minus 3b).
e) (x plus 2)(x plus 3).
f) (y minus 7)(y plus 7).
g) (2m plus 1) squared.
h) (a plus b plus c)(d).
i) 1 over 2(4p minus 6q).
j) x over 3(6x minus 9).
3. A store sells pens and pencils. Each pen costs x Kwacha and each pencil costs 2 Kwacha.
If a customer buys 3 pens and 4 pencils, write an expression for the total cost.
4. A gardener plants (y plus 3) flowers in the first row and (y plus 5) flowers in the second
row. Write an expression for the total flowers and simplify.
5. A car travels (2x plus 3) km in the morning and (x minus 2) km in the evening. Write
an expression for the total distance travelled and simplify.
6. A rectangular garden has an area of x squared plus 9x plus 20 m squared. Factorize the
expression to
determine the possible length and width combinations.
7. Dalit bakes some loaves of bread in the morning and 4 more loaves in the afternoon than
in the morning.
i) Write an expression for the total number of loaves she bakes in a day
ii) Find the number of loaves she bakes in a week.
8. A shop sells some packets of rice on Monday and 6 more packets on Tuesday than on
Monday. Write an expression for the total number of packets sold.
9. A teacher writes some questions on the board for the first class and 3 fewer questions for
the second class. Write an expression for the total number of questions written.
10.A farmer plants some maize seeds in the first field and 5 more seeds in the second field

Mathematics Teaching Module Form 2 – Term 2
12
than the first. Write an expression for the total seeds planted.
11. A student reads some pages of a book in the morning and twice as many pages in the
afternoon. Write an expression for the total number of pages read and simplify.
12. A gardener plants some roses in the first row and 2 fewer roses in the second row than in
the first. Write an expression for the total number of roses.
13. A cyclist rides some kilometres in the morning and 3 more kilometres in the evening than
in the morning. Write an expression for the total distance travelled.
Summary
● An algebraic expression is a mathematical phrase that contains numbers, variables, and
arithmetic operations (such as addition, subtraction, multiplication, and division), but
does not have an equal’s sign.
● Variables represent unknown or changeable values, usually denoted by small letters of
the alphabet.
● Constants are fixed numbers, like 2, 5, or negative 3.
● Terms are parts of an expression separated by plus or minus; for example, 3x plus 5 has
two terms, 3x (variable term) and 5 (constant term), whereas 2a squared minus 4a plus
7 has three terms.
● Key Techniques include: Use of distributive property when simplifying a(b plus c)
equals ab plus ac and combine like terms or group like terms where possible e.g. 3x
plus 5x equals 8x. However, 5x plus 8y equals 5x plus 8y.
● Factorization is writing an expression as a product of simpler expressions.
● Techniques for Linear Expressions: Factor out the highest common factor (HCF): 6x
plus 12 equals 6(x plus 2)
● Techniques for Quadratic Expressions: Factor by splitting the middle term: x squared
plus 5x plus 6 equals (x plus 2)(x plus 3)
● Use difference of squares: x squared minus 9 equals (x minus 3)(x plus 3)
● Importance of simplifying expressions, helps in solving quadratic equations, and is
used in algebraic fractions.

Mathematics Teaching Module Form 2 – Term 2
13
TOPIC 4: POLYGONS
INTRODUCTION
Overview: This topic focuses on Regular polygons and Irregular polygons. A polygon is one
of the most fundamental geometric shapes. Polygons are important because they appear
everywhere in real life, from the design of buildings and bridges and the layout of floor plans
in architecture, to computer graphics and animation in technology, to natural patterns like
honeycombs and crystals. Understanding polygons is essential as it provides the building
blocks for both theoretical geometry and practical applications that shape the world around us.
General Competence(s):
Analytical Thinking: Examine the properties of different polygons (sides, angles,
symmetry). And analyse patterns in the sum of interior and exterior angles.
Communication: Use appropriate language (verbal and non-verbal) in different situation
Collaboration: Work in groups to solve complex polygon problems.
Critical Thinking: Deal with life challenges effectively
Problem Solving: Solve real-world problems involving polygons (finding missing angles,
optimizing area).
Hook: Every time you walk across tiled floors, or touch the edges of a book, or feel the outline
of a stop sign, do you ever wonder what those shapes are and the secret code behind patterns
in nature and in the things we use every day?
Key terms
Polygon: A closed 2D shape made up of straight-line segments.
Sides (Edges): The straight lines that form a polygon.
Vertices (Corners): The points where two sides meet.
Interior Angle: The angle inside a polygon between two sides.
Exterior Angle: The angle formed outside the polygon between a side and the extension of
another side.
Regular Polygon: A polygon with all sides equal and all angles equal.
Regular Polygon: A polygon with sides and angles that are not all equal.
Sub-Topic 1: Regular Polygons
Introduction: ·This subtopic focuses on describing regular polygons, identifying the different
types of polygons, exploring the relationship between sides and angles of a regular polygon
and calculating the interior and exterior angles of regular polygons in braille. Regular polygons
are important because they show balance and symmetry and they appear in many places around

Mathematics Teaching Module Form 2 – Term 2
14
us and can be explored through touch. It is important for learners to understand how equal sides
and equal angles work together to form patterns that are both simple and powerful.
Specific Competence(s) Apply polygons to problem solving.
Learning Activity 1: Describing regular polygons using tactile objects.
Activity 1.1 Group work (Polygon touch and tell)
Materials needed
● Tactile polygon models (triangle, square, pentagon, hexagon, octagon).
● Raised-line drawings on cardboard or embossed sheets.
● Braille labels for each shape.
● Optional: sticks or string to construct polygons.
Instruction
1. Give each learner a tactile polygon model, and ask them if they can feel the corners of
each shape.
2. Ask the learners to trace the sides and corners with their fingers. Encourage them to
count the corners, sides and angles aloud.
3. Ask learners to describe the polygon using tactile information:
i. Number of sides.
ii. Whether sides feel equal in length.
iii. Whether angles feel equal (sharp vs. wide).
Learning activity 2: Identifying different types of polygons using tactile objects
Activity 2.1 group or pair work
1. Using the learning materials in activity 1.1 ask learners in groups to discuss various
types of polygons.
2. Consider providing two different polygons to each pair and let learners compare
(triangle and hexagon, square and rectangle…).
3. Let Learners compare by touch and explain differences in sides and angles.
4. Let learners write short descriptions (Pentagon: 5 equal sides, 5 equal angles…) to
reinforce both tactile and written understanding.
5. Ask learners to group polygons into categories by considering the number of sides
6. State whether the polygon is a triangle, quadrilateral or pentagon and so on
7. Ask follow-up questions:
a) How many sides does your shape have?
b) Do all the sides feel the same length?
c) What makes this shape different from the one you felt before?

Mathematics Teaching Module Form 2 – Term 2
15
Learning Activity 3: Exploring the relationship between sides and angles of a regular
polygon using tactile objects
Activity 3.1 Individual Work
Materials needed
● Tactile models of regular polygons (equilateral triangle, square, pentagon, hexagon,
octagon).
● Raised-line drawings or embossed sheets.
● Tactile protractor or angle-measuring aids.
● Braille worksheets with guiding questions.
Instructions
1. Each learner to trace each polygon with their fingers, counting the sides and corners.
2. Each learner to write how many sides each shape has.
3. Each learner to write how many corners each shape has.
4. Ask each learner to compare by touching each corner of each polygon.
5. Ask learners to say how they feel about the number of sides, corners and angles of
different types of polygons.
6. Ask learners to arrange polygons in order (triangle, square, pentagon, hexagon,
octagon)
Content Tips:
● By comparing the number of sides, corners and angles, learners will notice that the
sharper the edges/corners feel, the smaller the angles of a polygon and the smaller the
number of sides. For instance, in a triangle, the corners are sharper than in a hexagon,
and the interior angles are larger in a hexagon than in a triangle
● Notice how the angles get wider as the number of sides increases.
● They observe through touch that as sides increase, angles become less sharp and more
open.
● The corners are called vertices. At each vertex, there is an angle.
● Learners explain the relationship that as the number of sides increases, the interior
angles also increase, and the polygon feels closer to a circle.
Learning Activity 4: Calculating the interior and exterior angles of regular polygons in
braille.
Activity 4.1 Group Work, pair work
Learning Materials:
● Tactile polygon cut-outs (triangle, square, pentagon, hexagon, octagon) with raised
edges.
● Pegboard or geoboard with elastic bands to construct polygons.

Mathematics Teaching Module Form 2 – Term 2
16
● Braille worksheets with formulas and blank spaces for calculations.
● Talking calculator or abacus.
● Angle cards in braille (60 degrees, 90 degrees, 108 degrees, …)
Instructions:
1. Give learners tactile polygons
2. Ask learners to discuss the number of sides (n)
3. Ask learners to find the sum of the interior angles
4. Ask learners to calculate the size of each interior angle using braille.
5. Ask learners to use elastic bands on a pegboard polygon to trace the outside angle.
6. Ask learners to find the size of the external angle.
7. Ask learners to match braille angle cards to check the sum of the interior and the exterior
angle.
8. Ask learners to present their finding
Content tips:
● Introduce the formula in braille.
● Learners calculate the sum, then divide by, to find each interior angle.
● Example: Square (n equals 4): (4 minus 2)180 degrees equal 360 degrees. Each interior
angle equals 360 divide 4 equals 90 degrees. Where n is the number of sides.
● Learners use braille worksheets to calculate interior angles with the formula: interior
angles (n minus 2) times 180 over n
● Example: Triangle each interior angle is 60 degrees, square each interior angle is 90
degrees and a Pentagon n equals 5, each interior angle is 108 degrees.
● They compare tactile experience with calculated results.
● Interior angle plus exterior angle equals 180 degrees, for example: Pentagon (n equals
5) Interior angle is 108 degrees while the exterior is 72 degrees, the sum is 180 degrees.

Mathematics Teaching Module Form 2 – Term 2
17
SUB-TOPIC 2: IRREGULAR POLYGONS
INTRODUCTION:
This subtopic focuses on describing irregular polygons, deriving the formula for the sum of
interior angles of a polygon and determining the sum of interior angles of a polygon in braille.
Irregular polygons can have sides and angles of different lengths and measures.
Learning activity 1: Describing irregular polygons using tactile objects.
Activity 1.1 Group Work, pair work.
Learning Materials:
● A set of tactile irregular polygon cut-outs (made from cardboard, foam, or 3D-printed
with raised edges).
● Braille labels for each polygon (Polygon A, Polygon B,…).
● Braille worksheet with guiding prompts.
● Audio recorder or oral response option for learners to describe findings.
Instructions:
1. Provide the learner with one tactile irregular polygon.
2. Ask learners to feel the edges and corners carefully.
3. Ask learners to count how many sides and corners the shape has.
4. Ask the learners to compare the sides by touch. Prompt: “Are all the sides the same
length, or do some feel longer or shorter?”
5. Ask learners to record their observation in Braille:
6. Guide the learner to feel each corner. Prompt: “Do the corners feel sharp or wide?
Which ones feel bigger or smaller?”
7. Ask the learner to describe the “feel” of the whole polygon.
8. Prompt: “Does the shape feel balanced or uneven? Does it remind you of something
familiar?”
Content tips:
● An irregular polygon is a polygon that does not have all sides equal and all angles equal.
Unlike regular polygons (such as equilateral triangles or squares), irregular polygons
can have sides and angles of different lengths and measures.
● Learners complete a braille worksheet or record audio answers to prompts:
 Number of sides
 Comparison of side lengths
 Description of angles
 Overall impression (if the shape is symmetrical, even or uneven,)
● For example, if Polygon A has 5 sides. Two sides are longer than the others.
Or if Polygon B has 4 corners. One corner feels wider than the rest.

Mathematics Teaching Module Form 2 – Term 2
18
Learning Activity 2: Deriving the formula for the sum of interior angles of a polygon in
braille.
Activity 2.1 Pair Work
Learning Materials
● Tactile polygon cut-outs (triangle, quadrilateral, pentagon, hexagon).
● Pegboard or geoboard with elastic bands.
● Braille worksheets with guiding prompts.
● Talking calculator or abacus.
Instructions:
● Give learners an irregular tactile triangle.
● Ask them to feel the three corners (angles).
● Ask learners to find the sum of the angles in a triangle.
● Write the sum in Braille
● Provide irregular tactile square or rectangle.
● Guide learners to divide it into two triangles using a diagonal (elastic band on
pegboard).
● Ask learners to tell how many triangles can be made from a quadrilateral (learners to
use elastic bands or strings to split the quadrilateral).
● Provide learners with tactile pentagons and hexagons
● Ask learners to repeat splitting Pentagons and hexagons into triangles.
● Ask learners to find the sum of the angles of those triangles for the pentagon and the
hexagon
● Ask learners what they have noticed when a polygon with n sides is divided into
triangles.
Content Tips:
● The sum of these angles is always 180°.
● Each triangle has 180°. So, for the quadrilateral, the total is 2 times 180, which equals
360°
● Determining the sum of interior angles of a polygon in braille. Braille note:
● Guide learners to draw diagonals from one vertex, dividing it into 3 triangles.
● For instance, a pentagon can be split into 3 triangles. Each triangle has 180°. So the
total is 3 times 180 equals 540°.
● Braille note:
● A hexagon can be split into 4 triangles. Each triangle has 180°. So the total is 4 times
180 equals 720°.
● Braille note:
● Guide them to write in braille.

Mathematics Teaching Module Form 2 – Term 2
19
Learning activity 3: Determining the sum of interior angles of a polygon in braille.
Activity 3.1 individual Work
Ask learners to work individually on the following activities in braille
1. Calculate the sum of interior angles of:
a) a triangle
b) quadrilateral
c) pentagon
d) hexagon
2. If a polygon has 8 sides, calculate the sum of its interior angles.
Content Tips:
 Pair each braille formula with a tactile polygon diagram (triangle, quadrilateral,
pentagon, etc.) so learners can count sides by touch before applying the formula.
 Encourage learners to read the braille expression aloud as they calculate, reinforcing
both Nemeth literacy and mathematical reasoning.
 Provide step-by-step braille worksheets where learners substitute values of into the
formula and solve
Expected Standard: Polygons correctly applied in various problem-solving situations
Assessment
1. Using tactile diagrams, count the sides of each polygon and state the value of .
● Triangle
● Quadrilateral
● Pentagon
2. Write the formula for finding the sum of interior angles of a polygon in Braille.
3. Calculate the sum of the interior angles of;
a) a triangle
b) a quadrilateral
c) a hexagon.
4. A polygon has 10 sides. Use the formula to calculate the sum of its interior angles.
5. If the sum of interior angles of a polygon is 1260 degrees, how many sides does
the polygon have? (Learners solve using the formula)
6. By how many degrees is a pentagon less than a decagon.
7. A classroom window is shaped like a regular hexagon.
a) Use the formula to determine the sum of its interior angles.
b) Explain why this is important for designing symmetrical shapes.

Mathematics Teaching Module Form 2 – Term 2
20
8. A polygon has twice as many sides as a pentagon.
a) How many sides does it have?
b) What is the sum of its interior angles?
9. A polygon has a sum of interior angles equal to 1440 degrees. How many sides
does the polygon have?
Summary
1. State the formula in Braille (Nemeth Code).
2. Identify the number of sides in tactile polygon diagrams.
3. Calculate sums for specific polygons (triangle, quadrilateral, pentagon, hexagon).
4. Use Braille arithmetic to substitute values of.
5. Explain why the formula works (polygons can be divided into triangles).
6. Solve inverse problems (e.g., given the sum, find the number of sides).
7. Compare sums between polygons (e.g., pentagon vs. decagon).
Topic 3: Systems of Equations
Introduction
A system of equations is a set of two or more equations that use the same variables. In everyday
life, many situations involve finding unknown values that satisfy multiple conditions
simultaneously. This topic focuses on simultaneous equations in which two or more conditions
must be satisfied at the same time.
General competences
● Collaboration: learners to work with others in finding solutions to daily challenges.
● Critical Thinking: learners to solve complex problems.
● Problem Solving: learners to weigh up evidence and make appropriate decisions best
on experiences and relevant learning.
● Creativity and Innovation: Express one’s idea through life experiences.
● Analytical Thinking: modelling a problem using equations
● Communication: Express oneself using different media and symbols.
● Digital Literacy: Demonstrate advanced proficiency in software tools for productivity
Hook: Imagine solving a mystery where two or more pieces of information must be true at the
same time?
Key Terms
System of equations: A set of two or more equations with the same variables that are solved
together
Linear Equation: An equation that forms a straight line when graphed (e.g.,

Mathematics Teaching Module Form 2 – Term 2
21
Variable: A symbol (like 𝑥, y) that represents an unknown value.
Substitution Method: A method where one equation is rearranged and substituted into
another.
Elimination Method: A method where equations are added or subtracted to eliminate one
variable.
Coefficient: A number multiplying a variable (e.g., 3 in 3𝑥).
Constant Term: A number without a variable (e.g., 5 in 𝑥 plus 5).
Learning activity 1. Exploring situations that give rise to equations in one variable and
two variables in braille.
Sub-Topic 1: Simultaneous equations.
Activity 1.1: Group work, pair work
Instructions
1. Place the learners in groups or pairs.
2. Provide learners with the following embossed scenarios
1. A number multiplied by 4 equals 20.
2. A number reduced by 6 gives 9.
3. The sum of two numbers is 15.
4. A book costs K20 and a pen costs K3. Chanda bought x books and y pens, spending a
total of 50 kwacha.
5. The total number of learners in the class, with x boys and y girls, is 30.
6. The difference between the two numbers is 4.
7. A number divided by 5 equals 6.
8. The perimeter of a square garden is 20 cm
3. Ask learners to read and discuss the scenarios
4. Ask learners to formulate the equations for each scenario.
5. Ask each pair to present their findings to the rest of the class.
Activity 1.2: Individual work
Instructions
1) Place the learners in groups or pairs.
2) Provide learners with the following embossed scenarios
a) A number plus 9 equals 17. Write the equation.
b) Five times a number equals 35. Write the equation.
c) The sum of two numbers is 40. Write the equation.
d) A number divided by 4 equals 8. Write the equation.

Mathematics Teaching Module Form 2 – Term 2
22
e) There are x cows and y goats at the farm. Total number of animals 25. Write the
equation.
f) A number decreased by 11 gives 3. Write the equation.
g) The total cost of x items is 60 kwachas. Write the equation
h) The perimeter of a rectangle is 30 cm. Write an equation.
3. Ask learners to read the scenarios individually.
4. Ask learners to formulate the equations for each scenario.
5. Ask learners to present their work
Content Tips
● A situation can give rise to an equation in one variable or two variables.
● An equation shows that two quantities are equal in any given scenario.
● A one-variable equation has one unknown (example: 2x equals 2, x is unknown).
● Two-variable equations have two unknowns (example: x plus y equals 1. x and y are
unknown).
● Refer to Activity 1.1. (a) A number multiplied by 4 equals 20. Let that number be
represented by any letter of the English alphabet. In this case, let x be the unknown
number. 4 times x equals 20. The expression is 4x equals 20.
● Refer to activity 1,1. (d)A book costs K20 and a pen costs K3. Chanda bought x books
and y pens, spending a total amount of K50. In this statement, x represents the number
of unknown books, and y represents the number of unknown pens. Multiply x by 20,
add y multiplied by 3, and set the sum equal to 50. Therefore, the equation is 20x plus
3y equals 50.
Learning activity 2. Solving Equations in One Variable
Activity 2.1: Pair Work
Instructions
1. Place the learners in groups or pairs.
2. Provide learners with the following embossed equations:
a) x plus 5 equals 12
b) x minus 4 equals 9.
c) 2x equals 18.
d) x over 3 equals 6.
e) 4x equals 20.
f) x minus 8 equals 2.
g) x plus 10 equals 25.
h) 5x equals 45.
3. Ask learners to read and discuss the equations
4. Ask learners to solve the equations given.

Mathematics Teaching Module Form 2 – Term 2
23
5. Ask each pair to present their findings to the rest of the class.
Activity 2.3: Individual work
Instructions
1. Provide learners with the following embossed equations:
a) x plus 6 equals 13.
b) 7x equals 49.
c) x divided by 2 equals 8.
d) x minus 3 equals 10.
e) 9x equals 81.
f) x plus 11 equals 18.
g) x divided by 6 equals 4.
h) 4x minus 5 equals 65 minus 6x.
2. Ask learners to read the equations individually.
4. Ask learners to solve the equations given.
5. Ask learners to present their findings.
Content Tips
● Simplify both sides combine like terms and remove brackets if any.
● Move the constant term to the other side using addition or subtraction.
● Isolate the variable by dividing or multiplying.
● Check the solution by substituting it back into the original equation.
Example:
Solve 3x plus 7 equals 16
3x equals 16 minus 7
x equals 9 over 3
x equals 3
Learning activity 3: Solving simultaneous linear equations using elimination and substitution
(in two variables) in braille.
Activity 3.1: Group, pair work
Instructions
1) Place the learners in groups or pairs.
2) Provide learners with the following embossed pairs of equations:
a) x plus y equals 9, x minus y equals 1.
b) x plus y equals 13; x equals y plus 3.
c) x minus y equals 4, x plus y equals 8.
d) x plus y equals 17; x equals y plus 5.

Mathematics Teaching Module Form 2 – Term 2
24
e) x plus y equals 14, x minus y equals 2.
f) 2x plus 3y equals 16; 3x minus 2y equals 5.
g) 3x plus 4y equals 18 , 2x minus y equals 12.
h) 4x plus 5y equals 20, 2x minus 3 y equals 4
3) Ask learners to read and discuss the equations
4) Ask learners to solve the equations given.
5) Ask each pair to present their findings to the rest of the class.
Activity 3.2: individual work
Instructions
1. Provide learners with the following embossed pairs of equations:
a) x plus y equals 7, 2x minus y equals 4.
b) 2x plus 3y equals 11; 3x minus 2y equals 4.
c) 4x minus 2y equals 14, x minus y equals 1.
d) 3x minus 2y equals 8; negative 5x plus 4y equals negative 14.
e) 2x plus 3y equals 7, 4x minus 5y equals negative 1.
f) 4x plus 3y equals 5; 2x plus y equals 5.
2. Ask learners to solve the equations given.
3. Ask the learners to present their findings.
Content Tips:
● To solve Simultaneous Equations by Elimination
● Write both equations in the form 𝑎𝑥 plus 𝑏𝑦 equals 𝑐, with variables on one side and
constants on the other.
● Decide which variable to eliminate either 𝑥 or y.
● Make the coefficients equal (if needed) by multiplying one or both equations so that the
coefficients of the chosen variable are the same (or opposites).
● Add or subtract the equations to eliminate the chosen variable and get an equation with
only one variable.
● Solve for the remaining variable using the single-variable equation.
● Substitute back to find the other variable in one of the original equations.
● Check by substituting both values into both original equations to verify if they satisfy
the
● Identify the equations and variables, and decide which variable you want to solve for
first.
● Make one variable in one equation the subject of the formula
● Replace the expression in the other equation and replace the variable you isolated in the
second equation with the expression from step 2.

Mathematics Teaching Module Form 2 – Term 2
25
● Solve for the remaining variable
● Substitute back to find the other variable: Plug the value found into the expression from
step 2 to find the second variable.
● Check your solution: Substitute both values into the original equations to make sure
they satisfy both.
Examples:
Solve: x plus y equals 9; x minus y equals 1
Eliminate x and substitute 𝑦 in any of the equations.
2y equals 8
y equals 4
Substitute y equals 4 in x minus y equals 1
When y is 4, x equals 5
2x plus 3y equals 12, x minus y equals 1
You can solve either by elimination or by substitution
By elimination
2x plus 3y equals 12…. eq.1
X minus y equals 1…..eq.2 multiply eqn 2 by 2 to eliminate x
2x plus 3y equals 12
2x minus 2y equals 2 subtract eqn 2 from eqn 1
5Y equals 10
When y is 2, x is negative 3
Method 2: substitution
Let x or y be the subject of the formula
To make x the subject of the formula from equation 2
We have x equals 1 plus y
Substitute x equals 1 plus y in equation 1
2(1 plus y) plus 3y equals 12
2 plus 2y plus 3y equals 12
5y equals 12 minus 2
5y equals 10
Y equals 2
When y is 2, x is
Expected Standard: Equations used correctly in problem solving.
Assessment
1. Formulate equations for the following situations:
a) Three times a number is 18.
b) A number minus 7 is 5.
c) The sum of two numbers is 22.

Mathematics Teaching Module Form 2 – Term 2
26
d) The cost of x books and y pens is K45.
e) A pen costs K3, and a book costs K20. Kondwani buys x pens and y books for a total
amount of K100.
f) A bus fare from Munali to town plus a taxi fare back costs K120.
g) At a market, 4 apples and 2 bananas cost K40.
h) A toll gate charges 20 Kwachas for small cars and 500 kwacha for trucks. A total of
K2000 is collected for small cars and trucks.
2. Solve the following linear equations in one variable:
a) x plus 9 equals 16.
b) 6x equals 36.
c) x over 4 equals 5.
d) x minus 7 equals 11.
e) x plus 14 equals 20.
f) x over 5 equals 9.
3. Solve the following systems of simultaneous equations:
a) x plus y equals 12, x equals y plus 2.
b) x minus y equals 4, x plus y equals 10.
c) x plus y equals 9, x equals y plus 1.
d) x minus y equals 2, x plus y equals 6.
e) x plus y equals 14, x equals y plus 4.
f) x plus y equals 11, x minus y equals 3.
g) x plus y equals 10, x equals y minus 2.
h) x plus y equals 15, x minus y equals 5
i) A farmer buys chickens and goats. Two chickens and three goats’ cost K19, while four
chickens and one goat cost K17. Determine the cost of each chicken and each goat.
j) A farmer sells 5 kg of maize and 2 kg of beans for 90 Kwacha. Another farmer sells 3
kg of maize and 4 kg of beans for 100 Kwacha. Determine the price per kilogram of
maize and beans?
k) At a bakery, three loaves of bread and two cakes cost K24, while two loaves of bread
and four cakes cost K30. determine the cost of each loaf of bread and a cake.
Summary
● A system of equations is a collection of two or more equations that share the same set
of variables.
● Substitution Method: Solve one equation for one variable and substitute that expression
into the other equation(s).
● Elimination (or Addition) Method: Multiply one or both equations by constants so that
the coefficients of one variable are opposites, then add the equations together to
eliminate that variable.